

Apply Now 2026 Admissions 2026-27 Admission for PG/UG/Diploma Courses For Apply Online: https://admissions.pims.org.in/ Call 96321 71973 Contact 78994 08181 WhatsApp Click Here to pay
        Online Examination Fee
        payment Home About us academic preferred courses Browse Close All Bangalore University Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Science (RGUHS) UG Courses PG Courses Diploma Courses Job Oriented/Vocational Programs All Courses UG Courses Padmashree institutions have a variety of undergraduate courses that students can choose from based on their interests and passions. PG Courses Discover an array of specialized PG courses tailored to enhance your expertise and propel your career to new heights. Diploma Courses Diploma courses are shorter programs that assist students in specializing in a specific skill and entering the workforce quickly. After 10th, 12th, graduation, or post-graduation, they have the option of being pursued. Job Oriented/Vocational Programs Padmashree is offering various skill upgrading and job-oriented courses under DDU Kaushal Kendra recognized by UGC, New Delhi B.Voc Food Processing and Nutraceuticals PIMS - Padmashree Institute of Management & Sciences offering Food Processing and Nutraceuticals Course.  Best Food Processing college in Bangalore. Get Admission Now! View B.Sc. Food Technology (Bachelor of Science) Students learn about food science, technology, and the processes involved in food production, processing, and preservation through a three-year undergraduate program known as a  Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) in Food Technology. View B.Sc. Clinical Nutrition & Dietetics B.Sc. in Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics is a three-year undergraduate degree program that teaches students how to use their knowledge of food, people, science, and medicine to prevent and treat diseases. View B.Sc. Food Science & Nutrition 3 Year UG degree Course. Get Admission now. B.Sc. Food Science & Nutrition (Bachelor of Science)  is a 3 Year Under Graduate course. The main focus is on the interface between Human Nutrition and Food Science, and the integration of these two disciplines. Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences. View B.Sc.  Biotechnology Course | Get Admission in Best UG Course in Bangalore B.Sc. Biotechnology is a 3 Year Undergraduate Course that emphasizes the intersection of biology and technology. Find the scope of Biotechnology. View B.Sc. Psychology The Bachelor of Science in Psychology (BSc Psychology) is a three-year undergraduate degree that examines the human mind, emotions, and behavior. In addition, it addresses mental illness and crisis management. View BSc Environmental Science BSc in Environmental Science is a 3 Year undergraduate program that teaches students about the environment, its processes, and how to handle environmental challenges View B.Sc. (Bachelor of Science) Microbiology B.Sc. Microbiology is a Bachelor of Science in Microbiology is a three-year undergraduate program that studies the biology of viruses, protozoa, fungi, and bacteria. View B.Sc. Genetics Course Bachelor of Science in Genetics (B.Sc. Genetics) is an undergraduate program focused on biological variations, living body mechanisms, heredity, and how genes are passed down. Such as Biochemistry, Molecular Biology, Microbiology, Zoology View B.Sc. Biochemistry B.Sc Biochemistry (Bachelor of Science)   is a 3-year undergraduate course that studies chemical and physiological processes. This branch of science applies chemistry to the study of living organisms and their atoms and molecules. View BCA - Bachelor of Computer Application View MSc Biotechnology PG Degree Program MSc Biotechnology is a post graduate degree program that focuses on the application of biology in science, medicine, and technology. This course prepare students for careers in research, healthcare and other industries. View M.Sc Biochemistry MSc in Biochemistry. It is indeed a two-year full-time postgraduate degree program that provides students with advanced knowledge and skills in the field of biochemistry. The program covers a wide range of topics, including molecular biology, enzymology etc. View M.Sc Microbiology MSc program in Microbiology. The program includes required and elective courses, and students can also opt for graduate certificates in Environmental Microbiology, Microbiome and Health, Medical Microbiology, Agricultural Microbiology View M.Sc. Applied Genetics View M.Sc. Food Technology Course | PG Degree Course An MSc in Food Technology is a postgraduate program that focuses on the scientific principles behind food production, processing, preservation, packaging and distribution. The curriculum is a blend of including food chemistry, microbiology and nutrition biotechnology. View M.Voc Food Processing and Nutraceuticals View M.Voc Food Technology and Quality Management View M.Sc. Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics View M.Sc. Food and Nutrition View B.Voc Food Processing and Nutraceuticals PIMS - Padmashree Institute of Management & Sciences offering Food Processing and Nutraceuticals Course.  Best Food Processing college in Bangalore. Get Admission Now! View M.Voc Food Processing and Nutraceuticals View M.Voc Food Technology and Quality Management View Plant Tissue Culture View Plant Genetic Transformation View Phytochemical Techniques View Chromatographic Techniques View Quality control and Quality Assurance View Post Graduate Diploma in Food processing and Nutraceuticals View Diploma in Food processing and Nutraceuticals View Advanced Diploma in Food processing and Nutraceuticals PIMS has joined the Skill India mission by offering the Advanced Diploma in Food Processing and Nutraceuticals B.VOC., M.VOC. View PG Diploma in Food Processing and Nutraceuticals (BiSEP) Under BiSEP, PIMS offers PG Diploma in Food Processing and Nutraceuticals. View B.Voc Food Technology and Quality Management B.Voc Food Technology and Quality Management View B.Com. (Bachelor of Commerce) UG Degree Course B.Com is a three-year undergraduate degree that gives students a foundation in business and commerce principles. The course covers a variety of topics, including accounting, economics, business management, and taxation. View BBA Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences includes personality development workshops as a mandatory practice for all the students which trains and grooms the students and makes them ready to enter into the corporate world. View Master of Business Administration A sub-type of the full-time MBA program that is designed for upper management over a period of one or two years. View M.Com. (Master of Commerce) Master Degree Course | Padmashree Bangalore M.Com. (Masters of Commerce) is a postgraduate master's degree focusing on commerce, accounting, business administration, management and economics related subjects. This Masters degree course ideal for candidates who wish to make a career in banking financial services. View BPT - Bachelors in Physiotherapy To ensure students are well-prepared to navigate the real world of physical healthcare, this program has been meticulously crafted to combine theoretical learning with practical experience. View B.Sc. Medical Laboratory Technology (MLT) B.Sc. MLT is a comprehensive program designed to equip students with the theoretical knowledge and practical skills required to excel in the medical laboratory field. It emphasizes diagnostic techniques, laboratory procedures, and the use of cutting-edge technology. View M.Sc. in Medical Laboratory Technology (MLT) M.Sc. in Medical Laboratory Technology PG course is designed to provide in-depth theoretical knowledge and hands-on training in various diagnostic techniques, laboratory management, and cutting-edge medical research. Padmashree Institute of Health Sciences Bangalore View Bachelor of Hospital Administration (BHA) The Bachelor of Hospital Administration (BHA) at Padmashree Institute of Hospital Administration is a highly sought-after undergraduate program designed to develop future leaders in healthcare management. Affiliated with RGUHS & approved by the Govt. of Karnataka View Master of Hospital Administration (MHA) Master of Hospital Administration (MHA) at Padmashree Institute of Hospital Administration is a prestigious postgraduate program aimed at nurturing leaders & managers for the ever-growing healthcare industry. Affiliated with RGUHS & approved by the Govt. of Karnataka View Bachelor of Public Health (BPH) Bachelor of Public Health (BPH) is Undergraduate degree program at Padmashree Institute of Public Health, affiliated with RGUHS and approved by the Govt of Karnataka. View B.Sc. Nursing  (Bachelor of Science in Nursing) BSc Nursing (Bachelor of Science in Nursing) is a 4 year undergraduate degree program that prepares students to work as registered nurses in various health sectors. The program covers including psychology,  pharmacology, physiology, nutrition, anatomy and microbiology. View Master of Public Health (MPH) Master of Public Health is a PG Degree program at Padmashree Institute of Public Health, affiliated to RGUHS & approved by the Govt. of Karnataka, is a multidisciplinary postgraduate degree designed to prepare professionals to address global health challenges. View Master of Physiotherapy (MPT) View Masters in Clinical Research MSc in Clinical Research is a postgraduate program focused on the scientific, ethical & operational aspects of conducting clinical trials & research. This program provides individuals with the knowledge and skills to manage & contribute to the drug development process View Master Of Computer Applications (MCA) MCA (Master of Computer Applications) degrees offer a variety of career paths in the rapidly evolving IT and software development sectors View NAAC - IQAC Faculty Profile Research Nutraceutical Virtual museum ACIC-PIMS Events B.Sc. Zoology 02 March 2023 | Tags Featured Zoology is the branch of biology that studies the animal kingdom, including the structure, embryology, evolution, classification, habits, and distribution of all animals, both living and extinct, and how they interact with their ecosystems. Although humans have always been interested in the natural history of the animals they saw around them, and used this knowledge to domesticate certain species. The study of animals has largely moved on to deal with form and function, adaptations, relationships between groups, behavior and ecology. Zoology has increasingly been subdivided into disciplines such as classification, physiology, biochemistry and evolution. With the discovery of the structure of DNA by Francis Crick and James Watson in 1953, the realm of molecular biology opened up, leading to advances in cell biology, developmental biology and molecular genetics. Zoology is the branch of science dealing with animals. A species can be defined as the largest group of organisms in which any two individuals of the appropriate sex can produce fertile offspring; about 1.5 million species of animal have been described and it has been estimated that as many as 8 million animal species may exist.[19] An early necessity was to identify the organisms and group them according to their characteristics, differences and relationships, and this is the field of the taxonomist. Originally it was thought that species were immutable, but with the arrival of Darwin's theory of evolution, the field of cladistics came into being, studying the relationships between the different groups or clades. Systematics is the study of the diversification of living forms, the evolutionary history of a group is known as its phylogeny, and the relationship between the clades can be shown diagrammatically in a cladogram.[20] Although someone who made a scientific study of animals would historically have described themselves as a zoologist, the term has come to refer to those who deal with individual animals, with others describing themselves more specifically as physiologists, ethologists, evolutionary biologists, ecologists, pharmacologists, endocrinologists or parasitologists.[21] Career prospects in zoology Zoology is that branch of science which deals with the study of the animal kingdom. The branch deals with the structure, embryology, evolution, classification, habits, and distribution of all animals, both living and extinct. For someone who is interested in making a career in Zoology will be required to deal with both the existing, dead and quite possible the extinct species of the animal kingdom. This a great career interest for people who are fascinated with nature and would not mind spending time understanding it. There are several specializations that the students pursuing the field can venture into.  There are physiologists that study the metabolic processes of animals, then there are taxonomists who deal with the naming and the classification of the animal species, one can think of becoming embryologist whose only job is to study and focus on the early stages of the animal life. So similarly there are many such options that one can venture into depending on his / her capabilities and interests. On choosing this career, the person specializing in the field will be referred to as a zoologist. On being a part of this field, one will be carefully have to study the behavior, characteristics, evolutionary trends of the different species of animals and those factors having a direct impact on them. Job prospects in zoology Zoology as a career as a number of specializations because of which the students are presented with a plethora of career options once they chose to be associated with this field. This field is concerned with the preservation and management of animal kingdom and a career in it would mean that you are a part of that responsibility. A zoologist might even get to travel because the nature of his / her job. Channels like National Geographic, Animal Planet, Discovery Channel are in constant need of Zoologists for research and documentaries. Zoologists are also hired for zoos, wildlife services, botanical gardens, conservation organizations, national parks, nature reserves, universities, laboratories, aquariums, animal clinics, fisheries and aquaculture, museums, research, pharmaceutical Companies, veterinary hospitals, etc. Not only this, few other people who are zoologists by nature; Animal Behaviorists, Animal breeders, Animal Trainers, Animal Caretakers, Animal and Wildlife Educators, Animal rehabilitator, Conservationists, Documentary Maker, Forensic Experts, Lab Technicians, Researcher, Wildlife Biologists, Veterinarian, Zoo keeper, Zoo Curator, and many more. Shwetha K Admission counselor Nobish Admin User ADMISSION ENQUIRY 2026 Close modal ADMISSION ENQUIRY 2026 Close