PDF Document

 
1 
 
KARNATAKA ACT NO. 01 OF 2023 
 
 
 
THE KARNATAKA SCHEDULED CASTES AND SCHEDULED TRIBES 
(RESERVATION OF SEATS IN EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS AND OF 
APPOINTMENTS OR POSTS IN THE SERVICES UNDER THE STATE) ACT, 
2022 
 
 
Arrangement of Section 
Sections: 
1. Short title and commencement 
2. Definitions 
3. Reservation of seats 
4. Reservation in appointments or posts in the services under the State 
5. Reservations not to be affected 
6. Power to make rules 
7. Power to remove difficulties 
8. Repeal and savings 
 
STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS 
Act 01  of 2023:- A Bill to provide for reservation of seats in 
educational institutions in the State of Karnataka and of 
appointments or posts in the services under the State for the 
persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes 
in the State. 
Whereas, the State of Karnataka was formed from the erstwhile 
Mysore State and the Mysore State joined the Indian Dominion in 
the year 1948 and whereas the President of India issued an order 
under Article 341 and Article 342 of the Constitution of India 
declaring certain castes to be the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 
Tribes. 
Whereas, the number of castes increased drastically after the 
inclusion of some more communities, total population of th e 
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the State went up by 
leaps and bound. 
Whereas, in the year 1976 as per the Scheduled Castes and 
Scheduled Tribes Orders (Amendment) Act, 1976 (Central Act 108 of 
1976) the geographical limitations attached to the castes were removed 
which also led to extraordinary increase in the population of the  
2 
 
Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes in the State of Karnataka.  
Whereas, the State of Karnataka had provided reservation vide 
Government Order E - 185-285 RBS -35-34-2 during April 1955, a 
combined reservation of 18% for the Scheduled Castes and 
Scheduled Tribes. 
Whereas, the reservation quota provided to the Scheduled 
Castes and Scheduled Tribes continued to remain the same as it was 
in the year 1958, i.e., 15% for the  Scheduled Castes and 3% for the 
Scheduled Tribes, though their population and coverage of number 
of castes increased subsequently. 
Thereafter, the Government vide G.O.No. GAD (OM) 46 GRR 57, 
dated 04.02.1958 pending collection of data tentatively arrived at 
reservation for the Scheduled Castes at 15% and the Scheduled 
Tribes at 3%.  The same percentage of reservation has continued in 
the latest Government Order No.SWD 225  BCA 2000, dated 30th 
March 2002 as under:  
 
(a) Scheduled Castes: 15% 
(b) Scheduled Tribes: 3% 
(c) Backward Class: 32% 
 
Whereas, there has been a continuous demand and request by 
the members belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled 
Tribes for increase in t he reservation percentage, both in public 
employment and in educational institutions, as there was no 
adequate representation as per the constitutional mandate, and the 
Nayaka student’s association approached the High Court of 
Karnataka. 
 
Whereas, the High  Court of Karnataka in W.P.No.16852/2015 
directed the State Government to consider the representation filed by 
Nayak Students’ Welfare Federation for increase of reservation to the 
Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes. 
In order to take a decision in t his regard as directed by the 
Hon’ble High Court and to procure empirical data, the State 
Government appointed a Commission headed by Mr. Justice H.N.  
3 
 
Nagamohandas, former Judge, High Court of Karnataka by way of a 
Reference Order No.SWD 303 PVY 2015, dated 22.07.2019.  
 
Whereas, the Commission has undertaken an extensive study 
of the reference so made and submitted a report to the State 
Government on 02.07.2020.  The salient features of the report 
include,- 
 
(a) evidence of social and educational backwardness that renders 
many of the castes and communities under the Scheduled 
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes marginalized and still 
outside the mainstream (the Particularly Vulnerable Tribal 
Groups (PVTGs), Manual sca vengers, SafaiKarmacharis, 
Devadasis, Nomads, semi-nomads etc). 
(b) such backwardness is much starker in few communities who 
are living in the far -flung areas in the Western Ghats in 
addition to the dry regions of the state like Dakkligaru, Dholi 
Bhil, Maleru , soligaru etc. These communities have not been 
able to get the benefit of reservation adequately.  
(c) when compared with their population, there is evidence of 
inadequate representation in educational institutions, 
employment in the Government, for the Sched uled Castes and 
the Scheduled Tribes, which renders their attempt to come out 
of the backwardness extremely difficult. 
(d) the landholdings of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled 
Tribes is disproportionate and starkly less compared to their 
population and t hat reinforces the social and educational 
backwardness.  
(e) based on the above study, a special case is made out for 
increasing the reservations for the Scheduled Castes up-to 
17% and 7%  for the Scheduled Tribes, after making a 
special case for such increase  based on detailed study and 
analysis. 
Whereas, the Government appointed another Committee 
chaired by Justice SubhashAdi a n d  o t h e r s ,  to look into the  
4 
 
implementation of the Justice Nagamohandas Commission report 
and this Committee chaired by Justice SubhashA di and others, gave 
its report on 06.07.2022. 
Whereas, the Justice SubhashAdi committee also placed 
special circumstance as mentioned in the commission report 
and also pointed out the lack of parity in reservations for the 
Tribals compared to the reservati ons for the same in the 
Central Government employment and State Government 
employment.  
Whereas, the report also cites a study by National Law 
School of India University, Bengaluru, which states 74% of 
the Tribal community have remained invisible and their  
literacy rates are lower than 3%.  
The report also, mentioned that if there is a comparison 
made in the number of castes included under the Scheduled 
Castes and Scheduled Tribes with other States, then it can be 
seen that though other States have notified  a smaller number 
of Castes their percentage of reservation is higher than the 
Karnataka State.  The report includes examples of Madhya 
Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.  
The report records about the need for reservations to the 
most deprived classes fr om amongst the Scheduled Castes 
and the Scheduled Tribes.  In Karnataka 74% forms such 
part of population which makes it difficult for them to be 
identified and organized.   
The report also records the need for positive measures, 
to reduce any inequality, which is within the State’s power.  
The report further mentions that, Social justice and 
affirmative action form the cornerstone of Governance and 
the State is bound to work to bring about an egalitarian 
society and the endeavor constantly is that members f rom the 
Backward Classes of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled 
Tribes should be a part of the mainstream society.   
Whereas, to be part of public service as accepted by the  
5 
 
society of today, is to attain social status and play a role in 
Governance. The  objective of Article 16 (4) of the Constitution 
is that the backward classes of the Scheduled Castes and the 
Scheduled Tribes should also be put in the mainstream to 
enable the sharing of power of the State by affirmative action.  
Whereas, after considerin g the above the Government is 
satisfied about the extraordinary circumstances and a special 
case for an increase in reservations for members belonging to 
Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.  
Whereas, clause (4) of Article 15 of the Constitution 
enables t he State to make any special provisions for the 
advancement of any socially and educationally Backward 
Classes of citizens.  
 
Whereas, clause (4) of Article 16 of the Constitution enables the 
State to make any provision for the reservation of appointments o r 
posts in favour of any Backward Classes of citizens which in the 
opinion of the State is not adequately represented in the services 
under the State. 
 
Whereas, clause (1) of Article 38 of the Constitution, the State 
shall strive to promote the welfare of the people by securing and 
protecting as effectively as it may, a social order in which justice, 
social, economic and political, shall inform all the institutions of the 
national life. 
 
Whereas, there are many other states who have increased the 
reservation quota from time to time, exceeding the limit of fifty 
percent. 
 
As the matter was urgent and both Houses of the State 
Legislature were not in session, the Karnataka Scheduled Castes 
and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of seats in Educational 
Institutions and of Appointments or posts in the services under the 
State) Ordinance, 2022 (Karnataka Ordinance 07 of 2022) was 
promulgated Vide Notification DPAL 29 SHASANA 2022 dated: 
23.10.2022 to achieve the above object. And all provisions of the  said 
Ordinance brought in to force with effect from 1-11-2022.  
6 
 
 
This Bill seeks to replace the said ordinance. 
Hence, the Bill. 
[L.A. Bill No. 31 of 2022, File No. SAMVYASHAE  29 SHASANA 2022]  
[Entry 41 of List II and  entries 23 and 25 of list III of the Seventh Schedule to the 
Constitution of India]   
[Published in Karnataka Gazette Extra-ordinary No.15 in part-IVA dated:12.01.2023] 
KARNATAKA ACT NO. 01 OF 2023 
 
(First Published in the Karnataka Gazette Extra-ordinary on the 12th day of January, 
2023) 
 
 
THE KARNATAKA SCHEDULED CASTES AND SCHEDULED TRIBES 
(RESERVATION OF SEATS IN EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS AND OF 
APPOINTMENTS OR POSTS IN THE SERVICES UNDER THE STATE) ACT, 
2022 
 
 
(Received the assent of Governor on the 11th day of January, 2023) 
 
An Act to provide for reservation of seats in educational institutions in 
the State of Karnataka and of appointments or posts in the services under the 
State for the persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled 
Tribes in the State. 
Whereas, the State of Karnataka was formed from the erstwhile Mysore 
State and the Mysore State joined the Indian Dominion in the year 1948 and 
where as the President of India issued an order under Article 341 and Article 
342 of the Constitution of India declaring ce rtain castes to be the Scheduled 
Castes and Scheduled Tribes. 
Whereas, the number of castes increased drastically after the inclusion 
of some more communities, total population of the Scheduled Castes and 
Scheduled Tribes in the State went up by leaps and bound. 
Whereas, in the year 1976 as per the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 
Tribes Orders (Amendment) Act, 1976 (Central Act 108 of 1976) the 
geographical limitations attached to the castes were removed which also led to 
extraordinary increase in the popula tion of the Scheduled Castes and the 
Scheduled Tribes in the State of Karnataka. 
Whereas, the State of Karnataka had provided reservation vide 
Government Order E - 185-285 RBS -35-34-2 during April 1955, a combined 
reservation of 18% for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. 
Whereas, the reservation quota provided to the Scheduled Castes and 
Scheduled Tribes continued to remain the same as it was in the year 1958, i.e., 
15% for the Scheduled Castes and 3% for the Scheduled Tribes, though their 
population and coverage of number of castes increased subsequently.  
7 
 
Thereafter, the Government vide G.O.No. GAD (OM) 46 GRR 57, dated 
04.02.1958 pending collection of data tentatively arrived at reservation for the 
Scheduled Castes at 15% and the Scheduled Tribes at  3%.  The same 
percentage of reservation has continued in the latest Government Order 
No.SWD 225 BCA 2000, dated 30th March 2002 as under:  
(a) Scheduled Castes: 15% 
(b) Scheduled Tribes: 3% 
(c) Backward Class: 32% 
Whereas, there has been a continuous demand and request by the 
members belonging to the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes for 
increase in the reservation percentage, both in public employment and in 
educational institutions, as there was no adequat e representation as per the 
constitutional mandate, and the Nayaka student’s association approached the 
High Court of Karnataka. 
Whereas, the High Court of Karnataka in W.P.No.16852/2015 directed 
the State Government to consider the representation filed by  Nayak Students’ 
Welfare Federation for increase of reservation to the Scheduled Castes and the 
Scheduled Tribes. 
In order to take a decision in this regard as directed by the Hon’ble High 
Court and to procure empirical data, the State Government appointed  a 
Commission headed by Mr. Justice H.N. Nagamohandas, former Judge, High 
Court of Karnataka by way of a Reference Order No.SWD 303 PVY 2015, dated 
22.07.2019.  
Whereas, the Commission has undertaken an extensive study of the 
reference so made and submitte d a report to the State Government on 
02.07.2020.  The salient features of the report include,- 
(a) evidence of social and educational backwardness that renders many of 
the castes and communities under the Scheduled Castes and the 
Scheduled Tribes marginalized  and still outside the mainstream (the 
Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups (PVTGs), Manual scavengers, 
Safai Karmacharis, Devadasis, Nomads, semi-nomads etc) 
(b) such backwardness is much starker in few communities who are living 
in the far -flung areas in th e Western Ghats in addition to the dry 
regions of the state like Dakkligaru, Dholi Bhil, Maleru, soligaru etc. 
These communities have not been able to get the benefit of reservation 
adequately.  
(c) when compared with their population, there is evidence of ina dequate 
representation in educational institutions, employment in the 
Government, for the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, which 
renders their attempt to come out of the backwardness extremely 
difficult. 
(d) the landholdings of the Scheduled Castes a nd the Scheduled Tribes is  
8 
 
disproportionate and starkly less compared to their population and that 
reinforces the social and educational backwardness.  
(e) based on the above study, a special case is made out for increasing the 
reservations for the Scheduled C astes up -to 17% and 7%  for the 
Scheduled Tribes, after making a special case for such increase based 
on detailed study and analysis. 
Whereas, the Government appointed another Committee chaired by 
Justice Subhash Adi and others, to look into the implementa tion of the Justice 
Nagamohandas Commission report and this Committee chaired by Justice 
Subhash Adi and others, gave its report on 06.07.2022. 
Whereas, the Justice Subhash Adi committee also placed special 
circumstance as mentioned in the commission repor t and also pointed out the 
lack of parity in reservations for the Tribals compared to the reservations for 
the same in the Central Government employment and State Government 
employment.  
Whereas, the report also cites a study by National Law School of Indi a 
University, Bengaluru, which states 74% of the Tribal community have 
remained invisible and their literacy rates are lower than 3%.  
The report also, mentioned that if there is a comparison made in the 
number of castes included under the Scheduled Castes  and Scheduled Tribes 
with other States, then it can be seen that though other States have notified a 
smaller number of Castes their percentage of reservation is higher than the 
Karnataka State.  The report includes examples of Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan 
and Uttar Pradesh. 
The report records about the need for reservations to the most deprived 
classes from amongst the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes.  In 
Karnataka 74% forms such part of population which makes it difficult for them 
to be identified and organized.   
The report also records the need for positive measures, to reduce any 
inequality, which is within the State’s power. 
The report further mentions that, Social justice and affirmative action 
form the cornerstone of Governance and the State i s bound to work to bring 
about an egalitarian society and the endeavor constantly is that members from 
the Backward Classes of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes 
should be a part of the mainstream society.   
Whereas, to be part of public service  as accepted by the society of today, 
is to attain social status and play a role in Governance. The objective of Article 
16 (4) of the Constitution is that the backward classes of the Scheduled Castes 
and the Scheduled Tribes should also be put in the main stream to enable the 
sharing of power of the State by affirmative action.  
9 
 
Whereas, after considering the above the Government is satisfied about 
the extraordinary circumstances and a special case for an increase in 
reservations for members belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. 
Whereas, clause (4) of Article 15 of the Constitution enables the State to 
make any special provisions for the advancement of any socially and 
educationally Backward Classes of citizens.  
Whereas, clause (4) of Articl e 16 of the Constitution enables the State to 
make any provision for the reservation of appointments or posts in favour of 
any Backward Classes of citizens which in the opinion of the State is not 
adequately represented in the services under the State. 
Whereas, clause (1) of Article 38 of the Constitution, the State shall strive 
to promote the welfare of the people by securing and protecting as effectively as 
it may, a social order in which justice, social, economic and political, shall 
inform all the institutions of the national life. 
Whereas, there are many other states who have increased the reservation 
quota from time to time, exceeding the limit of fifty percent. 
Be it enacted by the Karnataka State Legislature in the seventy third 
year of the Republic of India as follows:- 
 1. Short title and commencement. - (1) This Act may be called the 
Karnataka Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of seats in 
Educational Institutions and of Appointments or posts in the services under 
the State) Act, 2022. 
(2) It shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from the 01 st   
day of November, 2022. 
2. Definitions.- (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- 
(a) “Scheduled Castes” shall have reference to the Scheduled Castes 
specified in the Constitution (Scheduled castes) Order,1950 made 
under Article 341 of the Constitution of India and as amended from 
time to time; 
(b) “Scheduled Tribes ” shall have reference to the Scheduled tribes 
specified in the Constitution (Scheduled tribes) Order, 1950 made 
under Article 342 of the Constitution of India and as amended from 
time to time; 
(c) "Government" means the Government of Karnataka; 
(d) "Educational Institutions" means any school, college or other 
educational institution maintained by the State or receiving  aid out of 
the State funds; 
(e) “Service or Post” means a civil service of the State of Karnataka or a 
civil post under the State of Karnataka, and includes a service or post 
in these establishment in the Public Sector; 
(f) “Establishment in Public Sector” means, -  
10 
 
(i) a Co -operative society registered or deemed to have been registered 
under the Karnataka Co -operative Societies Act, 1959 (Karnataka Act 
11 of 1959); 
(ii) an educational institution established or maintained or aided by the 
State Government; 
(iii) a Government comp any within the meaning of section 617 of the 
Companies Act, 1956 (Central Act 01 of 1956); 
(iv) a local authority ;and 
(v) a statutory body or corporation established by or under a State Act 
owned or controlled by the State Government. 
 
(2) All other words and expressions used but not defined in this Act shall 
have the same meaning as assigned to them in the Karnataka General Clauses 
Act,1899 (Karnataka Act 03 of 1899). 
3. Reservation of seats. - Having regard to the social and educational 
backwardness of the per sons belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled 
Tribes the reservation in respect of each branch or faculty for admission into 
educational institutions in the State for the persons belonging to the Scheduled 
Castes and the Scheduled Tribes, shall be seventeen percent and seven percent 
respectively. 
4. Reservation in appointments or posts in the services under the 
State.- Having regard to the social and educational backwardness of the 
persons belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, the reservati on 
for appointments or posts in the services under the State for the persons 
belonging to the Scheduled Castes shall be increased from fifteen percent to 
seventeen percent and the  Scheduled  Tribes  shall  be  increased from three 
percent to Seven percent, respectively. 
Explanation: - For the purposes of this Act, "Services under the State" 
includes the services under,  
(i) the Government; 
(ii) the Legislature of the State; 
(iii) any local authority; or 
(iv) any corporation or company owned or controlled by the Government. 
5. Reservations not to be affected. - Notwithstanding anything 
contained in sections 3 and 4, the claims of the persons belonging to the 
Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes shall also be considered for the 
unreserved seats, appointments or posts which shall be filled on the basis of 
merit and where a person belonging to the Scheduled Castes or  Scheduled 
Tribes is selected on the basis of merit, the number of seats, appointments or 
posts reserved for the Scheduled  Castes  and  Scheduled  Tribes  as  the  cas e 
may be, shall not in any way be affected.  
11 
 
 6. Power to make rules.- (1) The Government may by notification in the 
Official Gazette can make rules for carrying out the provisions of this Act. 
       (2) Every rule made under this Act  shall  be  laid  before  each House of 
the State Legislature while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which 
may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, 
before the  expiry of the session immediately following the session or the  
successive  sessions  aforesaid,  both  Houses  agree  in  making any 
modification in the rule or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made, 
the rule shall thereafter have  effect  o nly in such modified form  or be of no 
effect, as the case may be, so however, that any such modification or 
annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity  of  anything  previously 
done under that rule. 
7. Power to remove difficulties. - (1) If any d ifficulty arises in giving 
effect to the provisions of this Act, the Government may by order, make 
provisions not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as or it be necessary 
or expedient for removing the difficulty: 
Provided that, no such order shal l be made after the expiry of a period of 
two years from the date of commencement of this Act. 
 (2) Every order made under this section shall as soon as may, after it is 
made, be laid before each House of the State Legislature. 
 8. Repeal and savings. - (1) The Karnataka Scheduled Castes and 
Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of seats in Educational Institutions and of 
Appointments or posts in the services under the State) Ordinance, 2022 
(Karnataka Ordinance 07 of 2022) is hereby repealed. 
 (2)  Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken 
under the said Ordinance, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under 
this Act. 
 
The above translation of ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ಅನುಸೂಚಿತ  ಜಾತಿಗಳು ಮತ್ತ ು ಅನುಸೂಚಿತ  
ಪಂಗಡಗಳು (ಶೈಕ್ಷಣಿಕ ಸಂಸ್ಥ ೆ ಗಳಲ್ಲ ಿ ನ ಸ್ಥ ೆ ನಗಳಲ್ಲ ಿ ಮತ್ತ ು ರಾಜಾ ಾ ಧೀನ ಸೇವೆಗಳಲ್ಲ ಿ ನ ನೇಮಕಾತಿ 
ಅಥವಾ ಹುದ್ದ ೆ ಗಳಲ್ಲ ಿ ಮೀಸಲಾತಿ) ಅಧನಿಯಮ, 2022 (2023 ರ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ ಅಧನಿಯಮ ಸಂಖ್ಯಾ:01) 
be published in the official Gazette under clause (3) of Article 348 of the 
Constitution of India. 
 
 
THAAWARCHAND   GEHLOT 
GOVERNOR OF KARNATAKA 
 
 
By Order and in the name of 
the Governor of Karnataka, 
 
 
 
(G.SRIDHAR)  
12 
 
Secretary to Government 
Department of Parliamentary 
                                                           Affairs and Legislation 
 