PDF Document

 
CRITERION III – RESEARCH, INNOVATIONS AND EXTENSION 
3.3 Research Publications and Awards 
 
3.3.2.1 Total number of books and chapters in edited volumes/books published and papers in national/ international conference  
proceedings year wise during last five years               
 
2021-22 2020-21 2019-20 2018-19 2017-18 
63 7 14 1 0 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
S. 
No. Name of the teacher 
Title of the book 
/chapters 
published Title of the paper Web link of books  
1 Sudipta Kumar Mohanty 
Application in 
 Food and 
Pharmacology 
Endophytic Fungi and Bioactive Metabolites 
Production: An Update 
https://link.springer.com/cha
pter/10.1007/978-981-10-
7140-9_21 
2 M. Anuradha 
Red Sanders: 
Silviculture and 
Conservation 
Red Sanders: Silviculture and Conservation 
Introduction 
https://link.springer.com/bo
ok/10.1007/978-981-13-
7627-6  
3 Umalatha Chemistry of Red Sanders 
4 B S Rashmi Chemistry of Red Sanders 
5 M. Anuradha Propagation of Red Sanders: An Overview 
6 B. K. Indu Propagation of Red Sanders: An Overview 
7 M. Anuradha Pests and Diseases of Pterocarpus santalinus 
8 Umalatha Pests and Diseases of Pterocarpus santalinus 
9 B. K. Indu 
Genetic Diversity and Conservation of Pterocarpus 
santalinus L.f.Through Molecular Approaches 
10 Sudipta Kumar Mohanty 
Genetic Diversity and Conservation of Pterocarpus 
santalinus L.f.Through Molecular Approaches 
11 M. Anuradha 
Genetic Diversity and Conservation of Pterocarpus 
santalinus L.f.Through Molecular Approaches 
12 M. Anuradha 
Trade, Commerce and Socio-economic Status of Red 
Sanders 
13 B. K. Indu 
Trade, Commerce and Socio-economic Status of Red 
Sanders 
14 M. Anuradha Tree Improvement in Red Sanders 15 B. K. Indu Tree Improvement in Red Sanders 
16 Abhirami Panoth 
Pulses : 
Processing and 
Product 
Development Mung Bean 
https://link.springer.com/cha
pter/10.1007/978-3-030-
41376-7_12  
17 M. Anuradha 
Camptothecin and 
Camptothecin 
Producing Plants 
Propagation of camptothecin biosynthesizing plants 
https://www.sciencedirect.c
om/book/9780128204993/ca
mptothecin-and-
camptothecin-producing-
plants 
 
18 M. Anuradha 
In vitro camptothecin production from plants: 
prospects and challenges 
19 B. K. Indu 
In vitro camptothecin production from plants: 
prospects and challenges 
20 Umalatha 
In vitro camptothecin production from plants: 
prospects and challenges 
21 M. Anuradha Endophytes and camptothecin production 
 
 
 
No Web links for the below listed book chapter and Conference Proceedings 
S. No. Name of the teacher 
Title of the book 
/chapters published Title of the paper 
1 Abhirami Panoth Anti-oxidant foods & Drinks in India Ginger (Zingiber officinale) 
 
S. 
No. Name of the teacher Title of the papers published in Nutraceutical World Conference Proceedings  1 M. Anuradha An Introduction to Nutraceutical world   
2 Sudipta Kumar Mohanty    Bioactive compounds from Piper nigrum for antimicrobial therapy   
3 Shilpa P. Microgreens and nutraceutical benefits: A review                       
4 Sahana P.R Microgreens and nutraceutical benefits: A review                       
5 Sarada Devi M.S Development of encapsulated lactase-enriched frozen dairy products to mitigate Lactose Intolerance        
6 M. Anuradha Development of encapsulated lactase-enriched frozen dairy products to mitigate Lactose Intolerance        
7 Dhanalakshmi G In silico study of antifungal activity of Senna alata   
8 Sudipta Kumar Mohanty  Identification and Phylogenetic profiling of Ligands for Probiotics   
9 Preenon Bagchi Identification and Phylogenetic profiling of Ligands for Probiotics   
10 Indu B.K Nutraceutical wine preparation from Garcinia cambogia (Kokum) fruits   
11 Subbalakshmi G. Nutraceutical wine preparation from Garcinia cambogia (Kokum) fruits   
12 Manjubhargavi O. J. Nutraceutical wine preparation from Garcinia cambogia (Kokum) fruits   
13 Umalatha Development of Nutraceutical Biscuits Incorporating Jackfruit Seeds and Horse Gram: Physicochemical, 
Sensory, and Nutritional Evaluation 
 
14 M.R.Raghunath Development of Nutraceutical Biscuits Incorporating Jackfruit Seeds and Horse Gram: Physicochemical, 
Sensory, and Nutritional Evaluation 
 
15 Manjubhargavi O. J. Borassus flabellifer and its nutraceutical benefits: A critical review  
16 Shruthi A.M Borassus flabellifer and its nutraceutical benefits: A critical review  
17 Subbalakshmi G. Extraction of Food colour from Bouganvillea flowers  
18 Rashmi D  Extraction of Food colour from Bouganvillea flowers  
19 Rajini J Extraction of Food colour from Bouganvillea flowers  
20 Nethra S Comparative review of Melia azadirach and Azadirachta indica important medicinal trees   
21 Divyashree M.S Comparative review of Melia azadirach and Azadirachta indica important medicinal trees   
22 Preenon Bagchi Development of Nutraceutical Chocolate with Brahmi Extract for Cognitive Health  
23 Sudipta Kumar Mohanty  Development of Nutraceutical Chocolate with Brahmi Extract for Cognitive Health  
24 Sudipta Kumar Mohanty  Leptedenia reticulata: A Critical Review on Nutraceutical Properties  
25 Preenon Bagchi Leptedenia reticulata: A Critical Review on Nutraceutical Properties  
26 Shilpa P Yogurt with natural sweetner and beta carotenes  
27 Sarada devi M.S. Yogurt with natural sweetner and beta carotenes  
28 Ashwini M.  Momordica Cybellaria: A Potent Antidiabetic Plant  29 Suresh Babu Momordica Cybellaria: A Potent Antidiabetic Plant  
30 Shruthi H.P Momordica Cybellaria: A Potent Antidiabetic Plant  
31 Indu B. K Exploring the Feasibility of Ice Cream Preparation using Beet Root and Shankhapushpi Flower Extract                                               
32 Indu B. K Memory-Boosting Soup Prepared with Centella asiatica and Millets: A Nutritious and Delicious Recipe  
33 M. Anuradha Healthy Jam for Your Wellness: Nutraceutical Jam Made with Bhel Fruit and Natural Gelling Agent                                                               
34 Umalatha Sustainable Protein Source: Edible Protein Extraction from Silk Worm Pupal Waste  
35 Subbalakshmi G Sustainable Protein Source: Edible Protein Extraction from Silk Worm Pupal Waste  
36 Shilpa P. Nutra jelly preparation with ingredients of Chywanprash  
37 Subbalakshmi G  Exploring the Nutraceutical benefits of Watermelon Rind  
38 Sarada devi M.S. Exploring the Antioxidant Properties of Grapefruit Waste: A Review  
39 Rashmi B.S Development of Nutraceutical Chocolate Incorporating Mulberry Fruit: Physicochemical, Sensory, and 
Nutritional Evaluation                                          
 
40 M.R Raghuanth  Development of Nutraceutical Papad with Moringa Leaf and Horse Gram  
41 Nagamani J.E  Nutraceutical benefits of chia seeds: A critical review  
42 Sowmya Rajashekar  Nutraceutical benefits of chia seeds: A critical review  
43 Shilpa  P. Nutraceutical benefits of chia seeds: A critical review  
44 Rashmi D Antimicrobial and Antidiabetic Properties of Melia azadirach: A Comprehensive Review  
45 Sriharsha D.V.   Antimicrobial and Antidiabetic Properties of Melia azadirach: A Comprehensive Review  
46 Sumanth B. Antimicrobial and Antidiabetic Properties of Melia azadirach: A Comprehensive Review  
47 Raju Krishna Kishore  Need for Big Data Analytics for Identification of Export Potential of Indian Nutraceutical Herbs  
48 Roopesh Kumar Need for Big Data Analytics for Identification of Export Potential of Indian Nutraceutical Herbs  
49 Umalatha Bioprospecting of pomegranate rind for nutraceutical principles  
50 Subbalakshmi G Bioprospecting of pomegranate rind for nutraceutical principles  
51 Indu B.K  Bioprospecting of pomegranate rind for nutraceutical principles  
52 Dr. Anuradha Pepper mint tea - a potent nutraceutical for PCOD management  
53 M, Shruthi A.M Pepper mint tea - a potent nutraceutical for PCOD management  
54 Dhanalakshmi G. Pepper mint tea - a potent nutraceutical for PCOD management  
55 Dhanalakshmi G,  Nutraceutical and millet milk yogurt: A review  
56 Rajani J,  Nutraceutical and millet milk yogurt: A review  
57 Manjubargavi O.J Nutraceutical and millet milk yogurt: A review  58 Manjubargavi O.J A critical review about nervine nutraceuticals for Parkinson's disease management  
59 Ashwini M A critical review about nervine nutraceuticals for Parkinson's disease management  
60 Rashmi D A critical review about nervine nutraceuticals for Parkinson's disease management  
61 Subbalakshmi G Food for thought: Nutrition and nutraceuticals from traditional foods   
62 Umalatha Food for thought: Nutrition and nutraceuticals from traditional foods   
63 Raghunath M.R  Food for thought: Nutrition and nutraceuticals from traditional foods   
 