

Apply Now 2026 Admissions 2026-27 Admission for PG/UG/Diploma Courses For Apply Online: https://admissions.pims.org.in/ Call 96321 71973 Contact 78994 08181 WhatsApp Click Here to pay
        Online Examination Fee
        payment Home About us academic preferred courses Browse Close All Bangalore University Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Science (RGUHS) UG Courses PG Courses Diploma Courses Job Oriented/Vocational Programs All Courses UG Courses Padmashree institutions have a variety of undergraduate courses that students can choose from based on their interests and passions. PG Courses Discover an array of specialized PG courses tailored to enhance your expertise and propel your career to new heights. Diploma Courses Diploma courses are shorter programs that assist students in specializing in a specific skill and entering the workforce quickly. After 10th, 12th, graduation, or post-graduation, they have the option of being pursued. Job Oriented/Vocational Programs Padmashree is offering various skill upgrading and job-oriented courses under DDU Kaushal Kendra recognized by UGC, New Delhi B.Voc Food Processing and Nutraceuticals PIMS - Padmashree Institute of Management & Sciences offering Food Processing and Nutraceuticals Course.  Best Food Processing college in Bangalore. Get Admission Now! View B.Sc. Food Technology (Bachelor of Science) Students learn about food science, technology, and the processes involved in food production, processing, and preservation through a three-year undergraduate program known as a  Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) in Food Technology. View B.Sc. Clinical Nutrition & Dietetics B.Sc. in Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics is a three-year undergraduate degree program that teaches students how to use their knowledge of food, people, science, and medicine to prevent and treat diseases. View B.Sc. Food Science & Nutrition 3 Year UG degree Course. Get Admission now. B.Sc. Food Science & Nutrition (Bachelor of Science)  is a 3 Year Under Graduate course. The main focus is on the interface between Human Nutrition and Food Science, and the integration of these two disciplines. Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences. View B.Sc.  Biotechnology Course | Get Admission in Best UG Course in Bangalore B.Sc. Biotechnology is a 3 Year Undergraduate Course that emphasizes the intersection of biology and technology. Find the scope of Biotechnology. View B.Sc. Psychology The Bachelor of Science in Psychology (BSc Psychology) is a three-year undergraduate degree that examines the human mind, emotions, and behavior. In addition, it addresses mental illness and crisis management. View BSc Environmental Science BSc in Environmental Science is a 3 Year undergraduate program that teaches students about the environment, its processes, and how to handle environmental challenges View B.Sc. (Bachelor of Science) Microbiology B.Sc. Microbiology is a Bachelor of Science in Microbiology is a three-year undergraduate program that studies the biology of viruses, protozoa, fungi, and bacteria. View B.Sc. Genetics Course Bachelor of Science in Genetics (B.Sc. Genetics) is an undergraduate program focused on biological variations, living body mechanisms, heredity, and how genes are passed down. Such as Biochemistry, Molecular Biology, Microbiology, Zoology View B.Sc. Biochemistry B.Sc Biochemistry (Bachelor of Science)   is a 3-year undergraduate course that studies chemical and physiological processes. This branch of science applies chemistry to the study of living organisms and their atoms and molecules. View BCA - Bachelor of Computer Application View MSc Biotechnology PG Degree Program MSc Biotechnology is a post graduate degree program that focuses on the application of biology in science, medicine, and technology. This course prepare students for careers in research, healthcare and other industries. View M.Sc Biochemistry MSc in Biochemistry. It is indeed a two-year full-time postgraduate degree program that provides students with advanced knowledge and skills in the field of biochemistry. The program covers a wide range of topics, including molecular biology, enzymology etc. View M.Sc Microbiology MSc program in Microbiology. The program includes required and elective courses, and students can also opt for graduate certificates in Environmental Microbiology, Microbiome and Health, Medical Microbiology, Agricultural Microbiology View M.Sc. Applied Genetics View M.Sc. Food Technology Course | PG Degree Course An MSc in Food Technology is a postgraduate program that focuses on the scientific principles behind food production, processing, preservation, packaging and distribution. The curriculum is a blend of including food chemistry, microbiology and nutrition biotechnology. View M.Voc Food Processing and Nutraceuticals View M.Voc Food Technology and Quality Management View M.Sc. Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics View M.Sc. Food and Nutrition View B.Voc Food Processing and Nutraceuticals PIMS - Padmashree Institute of Management & Sciences offering Food Processing and Nutraceuticals Course.  Best Food Processing college in Bangalore. Get Admission Now! View M.Voc Food Processing and Nutraceuticals View M.Voc Food Technology and Quality Management View Plant Tissue Culture View Plant Genetic Transformation View Phytochemical Techniques View Chromatographic Techniques View Quality control and Quality Assurance View Post Graduate Diploma in Food processing and Nutraceuticals View Diploma in Food processing and Nutraceuticals View Advanced Diploma in Food processing and Nutraceuticals PIMS has joined the Skill India mission by offering the Advanced Diploma in Food Processing and Nutraceuticals B.VOC., M.VOC. View PG Diploma in Food Processing and Nutraceuticals (BiSEP) Under BiSEP, PIMS offers PG Diploma in Food Processing and Nutraceuticals. View B.Voc Food Technology and Quality Management B.Voc Food Technology and Quality Management View B.Com. (Bachelor of Commerce) UG Degree Course B.Com is a three-year undergraduate degree that gives students a foundation in business and commerce principles. The course covers a variety of topics, including accounting, economics, business management, and taxation. View BBA Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences includes personality development workshops as a mandatory practice for all the students which trains and grooms the students and makes them ready to enter into the corporate world. View Master of Business Administration A sub-type of the full-time MBA program that is designed for upper management over a period of one or two years. View M.Com. (Master of Commerce) Master Degree Course | Padmashree Bangalore M.Com. (Masters of Commerce) is a postgraduate master's degree focusing on commerce, accounting, business administration, management and economics related subjects. This Masters degree course ideal for candidates who wish to make a career in banking financial services. View BPT - Bachelors in Physiotherapy To ensure students are well-prepared to navigate the real world of physical healthcare, this program has been meticulously crafted to combine theoretical learning with practical experience. View B.Sc. Medical Laboratory Technology (MLT) B.Sc. MLT is a comprehensive program designed to equip students with the theoretical knowledge and practical skills required to excel in the medical laboratory field. It emphasizes diagnostic techniques, laboratory procedures, and the use of cutting-edge technology. View M.Sc. in Medical Laboratory Technology (MLT) M.Sc. in Medical Laboratory Technology PG course is designed to provide in-depth theoretical knowledge and hands-on training in various diagnostic techniques, laboratory management, and cutting-edge medical research. Padmashree Institute of Health Sciences Bangalore View Bachelor of Hospital Administration (BHA) The Bachelor of Hospital Administration (BHA) at Padmashree Institute of Hospital Administration is a highly sought-after undergraduate program designed to develop future leaders in healthcare management. Affiliated with RGUHS & approved by the Govt. of Karnataka View Master of Hospital Administration (MHA) Master of Hospital Administration (MHA) at Padmashree Institute of Hospital Administration is a prestigious postgraduate program aimed at nurturing leaders & managers for the ever-growing healthcare industry. Affiliated with RGUHS & approved by the Govt. of Karnataka View Bachelor of Public Health (BPH) Bachelor of Public Health (BPH) is Undergraduate degree program at Padmashree Institute of Public Health, affiliated with RGUHS and approved by the Govt of Karnataka. View B.Sc. Nursing  (Bachelor of Science in Nursing) BSc Nursing (Bachelor of Science in Nursing) is a 4 year undergraduate degree program that prepares students to work as registered nurses in various health sectors. The program covers including psychology,  pharmacology, physiology, nutrition, anatomy and microbiology. View Master of Public Health (MPH) Master of Public Health is a PG Degree program at Padmashree Institute of Public Health, affiliated to RGUHS & approved by the Govt. of Karnataka, is a multidisciplinary postgraduate degree designed to prepare professionals to address global health challenges. View Master of Physiotherapy (MPT) View Masters in Clinical Research MSc in Clinical Research is a postgraduate program focused on the scientific, ethical & operational aspects of conducting clinical trials & research. This program provides individuals with the knowledge and skills to manage & contribute to the drug development process View Master Of Computer Applications (MCA) MCA (Master of Computer Applications) degrees offer a variety of career paths in the rapidly evolving IT and software development sectors View NAAC - IQAC Faculty Profile Research Nutraceutical Virtual museum ACIC-PIMS Events "Innovation Empowered: Padmashree's Grant Triumph" Cost-effective study of Leptadenia reticulata micropropagation for commercial supply of elite germplasm for farmers, National Medicinal Plants Board, New Delhi, 2006 (₹7.000 Lakhs) Tissue culture and conventional propagation of Nothapodytes foetida for large-scale sapling supply and comparative study with Campthotheca acuminata , National Medicinal Plants Board, New Delhi, 2009 (₹25.000 Lakhs) Isolation and purification of pregnane glycosides from Caralluma fimbriata , Sanat Products Ltd., New Delhi, 2011 (₹0.400 Lakhs) Biotech Finishing School, Dept. of IT, BT & S&T, Govt. of Karnataka, 2011 (₹100.000 Lakhs) Finding an economical and reliable source for production of antithrombotic and fibrinolytic agents and testing efficacy, VGST, GoK, 2015 (₹4.000 Lakhs) Application, replication, scientific validation, and scale-up of a patented formula, Department of Science and Technology, New Delhi, Science for equity and development division (SEED), Government of India, 2015 (₹4.015 Lakhs) National Post Doctoral Fellowship - Life Sciences, Science and Engineering Research Board, Government of India, 2016 (₹9.60 Lakhs) Biotechnology Skill Enhancement Program (BiSEP), Department of IT-BT, Science and Technology, Government of Karnataka, and Government of India, 2017 (₹122.50 Lakhs) Financial assistance to strengthen research facilities in all science departments of the college, Department of Science and Technology, New Delhi, FIST program, Government of India, 2018 (₹30.00 Lakhs) Utilization of silkworm waste for poultry and fish feed production, Ministry of Science and Technology, Department of Science and Technology, New Delhi, Women Scientist Scheme, WOS-B, Government of India, 2019 (₹31.74 Lakhs) Formulation and standardization of Theertham using various Ayurvedic herbs, N Ranga Rao Sons Pvt Ltd., Bangalore ,2019 (₹3.50 Lakhs) Establishing advanced research and training facility for phytoceuticals, Vision Group on Science and Technology, K-FIST Level-II, Government of Karnataka ,2015 (₹20.00 Lakhs) Rajat Jayanthi, DST New Delhi, 2010-2014 ( ₹ 12.00 Lakhs) Development of low-cost strategic modules and edukits for training science teachers in conventional and applied propagation techniques Student: Ms. Rukaya Amin Chowdary Mentor: Dr. Anuradha M. · Creating awareness in rural schools about lignin contamination by coconut-husk and its biodegradation by cost-effective methods Student: Mr. Sachin S Mentor: Dr. Balasubramanya S. · Reducing the level of toxic substances at home, by educating school children on the use of household and natural ingredients Student: Ms. Shruthi Shekar Mentor: Dr. Balasubramanya S. · Educating school children about the benefits of hydroponics and encouraging its use among them Student: Ms. Surabhi Soral Mentor: Dr. Anuradha M. · Designing low-cost instruments and technology in molecular biology for higher secondary (rural and semi-urban) students Student: Ms. Aparna S.N Mentor: Dr. Balasubramanya S. · Creating awareness about food safety in Anganwadi kitchens Student: Ms. Bhagyashree Bahadhur Mentor: Dr. Anuradha M. SPICE, VGST, Government of Karnataka, 2014-2016 (₹ 1.2 Lakhs) · Mutagenicity of commercially available hair dyes and hair colours Students: Mr. Julia Thomas, Ms. Santwana D Mentor: Ms. Rekha L. · Phytochemical and antibacterial analysis of leaf extracts of Euphorbia neriifolia Students: Mr. Neeraj Pokharen, Mr. Santosh Dahal Mentor: M. Kumara Swamy · Phytochemical and antifungal evaluation of Castor plant leaves - Ricinus communis L. Students: Ms. Gurmeet Kaur, Ms. Geeta Devi Mentor: Dr. Ravikumar H.N · Evaluation of Biodiesel production from microalgae collected from freshwater habitats Student: Mr. Sudeep Shah Mentor: Mr. Lokesh P TRIPS, VGST, Government of Karnataka, 2014-2016 (₹0.3 Lakhs) · Endophytic Fungi from Camptotheca acuminata as a potential source of Camthothecin - An Anticancer Agent Students: Mr. Kalisa Amarsingh Bogati, Mr. Laipubam, Mr. Bhaskar Sharma Mentor: Dr. Anuradha M. 44th series KSCST, 2020-2021 ( ₹ 0.16 Lakhs) · Extraction of protein from desilked pupae for human consumption Students: Mr. Madan M Sharma, Mr. Kiran Mandlik, Mr. Akshay Nangere, Ms. Varshini A. R. Mentors: Dr. Anuradha M., Dr. Umalatha · Optimizing the process parameters for the food packaging material derived from freshwater fish (cycloid) scales Students: Mr. Pormeswar Narzary, Mr. Phungja Mushahary, Ms. Nivea Kachari, Ms. Shabeena Thasneem Mentors: Mrs. Seba T Jiso Thomas, Dr. Saradha Devi M. S. 45th series KSCST, 2021-22 ( ₹ 0.67 Lakhs) · Production of bioactive molecules from agro-industrial waste Students: Ms. Kavya T. T., Mr. Dileep K. R., Mr. Harsha B., Ms. Kalavathi K P Mentors: Dr. Mallikarjuna Gowda K. G., Dr. Preenon Bagchi · Isolation and characterization of potential microflora to enhance conversation of kitchen waste to biofertilizer Students: Ms. Janani S, Ms. Haripriya Ralegankar, Ms. Kavya D Mentors: Dr. Indu B. K., Dr. Sudipta Kumar Mohanty · Synthesis of biodegradable empty drug capsule shells from fruit waste Students: Ms. Usharani Yeddula, Ms. Vidhya S, Ms. Yamini G S Mentors: Dr. Umalatha, Dr. Nagamani JE · Designing and development of bio-air purifier using bio waste Students: Mr. Prabhu S, Ms. L Priyanka, Ms. Meera D Mentor: Dr. Nethra S · The development of nutraceuticals enriched food product by using processed technologies of proso millet for better COVID-19 patients Students: Ms. Suchitha K P, Mr. Ansif V, Ms. Meghana N, Ms. Pooma Dev Mentor: Ms. Rani S Byadagi · Natural antioxidants used to reduce rancidity in oils Students: Ms. Samyuktha B, Ms. R. Namitha, Ms. R. Harshitha, Mentor: Dr. M. S. Saradha Devi, Mrs. Subbalakshmi. G · Development of a multilayer packaging material using jackfruit waste Students: Ms. Suchitha K P, Mr. Ansif V, Ms. Meghana N, Ms. Pooma Dev Mentor: Dr. Umalatha, Ms. Alice Preethi 46th series KSCST, 2022-2023. ( ₹ 0.35 Lakhs) · Production of wine from pineapple ( Ananas comosus) and chiku ( Manilkara zampota) waste Students: Mr. Sanjay K, Ms. Pooja N C, Mr. Sumanth N, Ms. Swapna R Mentor: Dr. Dhanalakshmi G · Development of functional food products using processed brown top millet with fruit and vegetable waste to enhance immunity against COVID infection Students: Ms. Shraddha Ner, Ms. Riddhi Deshpande Bhavana Patil, Ms. Pavithra P Mentor: Ms. Rani Sadashiv Byadagi · Extraction of essential polyunsaturated fatty acids (epufa) from desilked silkworm pupae waste for the synthesis of cosmetic emulsions Students: Ms. Harini G, Ms. Kalyani Amol Kadam, Mr. Pramod K, Ms. Belli Teekesh K Mentors: Dr. Nagamani J E, Dr. Umalatha · Kodo malt as a smart nutrition for post COVID-19 infections Students: Ms. Shravani K, Ms. Bachala Chetana Valli, Ms. Gownipuram Geetha Madhuri, Ms. Chilakalapudi Pragnya Mentor: Mrs. Prabhavati S Erimani · Utilizing peels and seeds of fruit waste formulation and standardization for the preparation of Phyto-bar enriched with microalgae: spirulina Students: Ms. Riya Vikas Manjrekar, Ms. Riyoodaka Pariat, Ms. Pallavi Narayan Nikumbh Mentor: Mrs. Shanthala P Research Research Grants Research Policy Patents Publications ADMISSION ENQUIRY 2026 Close modal ADMISSION ENQUIRY 2026 Close