

Apply Now 2026 Admissions 2026-27 Admission for PG/UG/Diploma Courses For Apply Online: https://admissions.pims.org.in/ Call 96321 71973 Contact 78994 08181 WhatsApp Click Here to pay
        Online Examination Fee
        payment Home About us academic preferred courses Browse Close All Bangalore University Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Science (RGUHS) UG Courses PG Courses Diploma Courses Job Oriented/Vocational Programs All Courses UG Courses Padmashree institutions have a variety of undergraduate courses that students can choose from based on their interests and passions. PG Courses Discover an array of specialized PG courses tailored to enhance your expertise and propel your career to new heights. Diploma Courses Diploma courses are shorter programs that assist students in specializing in a specific skill and entering the workforce quickly. After 10th, 12th, graduation, or post-graduation, they have the option of being pursued. Job Oriented/Vocational Programs Padmashree is offering various skill upgrading and job-oriented courses under DDU Kaushal Kendra recognized by UGC, New Delhi B.Voc Food Processing and Nutraceuticals PIMS - Padmashree Institute of Management & Sciences offering Food Processing and Nutraceuticals Course.  Best Food Processing college in Bangalore. Get Admission Now! View B.Sc. Food Technology (Bachelor of Science) Students learn about food science, technology, and the processes involved in food production, processing, and preservation through a three-year undergraduate program known as a  Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) in Food Technology. View B.Sc. Clinical Nutrition & Dietetics B.Sc. in Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics is a three-year undergraduate degree program that teaches students how to use their knowledge of food, people, science, and medicine to prevent and treat diseases. View B.Sc. Food Science & Nutrition 3 Year UG degree Course. Get Admission now. B.Sc. Food Science & Nutrition (Bachelor of Science)  is a 3 Year Under Graduate course. The main focus is on the interface between Human Nutrition and Food Science, and the integration of these two disciplines. Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences. View B.Sc.  Biotechnology Course | Get Admission in Best UG Course in Bangalore B.Sc. Biotechnology is a 3 Year Undergraduate Course that emphasizes the intersection of biology and technology. Find the scope of Biotechnology. View B.Sc. Psychology The Bachelor of Science in Psychology (BSc Psychology) is a three-year undergraduate degree that examines the human mind, emotions, and behavior. In addition, it addresses mental illness and crisis management. View BSc Environmental Science BSc in Environmental Science is a 3 Year undergraduate program that teaches students about the environment, its processes, and how to handle environmental challenges View B.Sc. (Bachelor of Science) Microbiology B.Sc. Microbiology is a Bachelor of Science in Microbiology is a three-year undergraduate program that studies the biology of viruses, protozoa, fungi, and bacteria. View B.Sc. Genetics Course Bachelor of Science in Genetics (B.Sc. Genetics) is an undergraduate program focused on biological variations, living body mechanisms, heredity, and how genes are passed down. Such as Biochemistry, Molecular Biology, Microbiology, Zoology View B.Sc. Biochemistry B.Sc Biochemistry (Bachelor of Science)   is a 3-year undergraduate course that studies chemical and physiological processes. This branch of science applies chemistry to the study of living organisms and their atoms and molecules. View BCA - Bachelor of Computer Application View MSc Biotechnology PG Degree Program MSc Biotechnology is a post graduate degree program that focuses on the application of biology in science, medicine, and technology. This course prepare students for careers in research, healthcare and other industries. View M.Sc Biochemistry MSc in Biochemistry. It is indeed a two-year full-time postgraduate degree program that provides students with advanced knowledge and skills in the field of biochemistry. The program covers a wide range of topics, including molecular biology, enzymology etc. View M.Sc Microbiology MSc program in Microbiology. The program includes required and elective courses, and students can also opt for graduate certificates in Environmental Microbiology, Microbiome and Health, Medical Microbiology, Agricultural Microbiology View M.Sc. Applied Genetics View M.Sc. Food Technology Course | PG Degree Course An MSc in Food Technology is a postgraduate program that focuses on the scientific principles behind food production, processing, preservation, packaging and distribution. The curriculum is a blend of including food chemistry, microbiology and nutrition biotechnology. View M.Voc Food Processing and Nutraceuticals View M.Voc Food Technology and Quality Management View M.Sc. Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics View M.Sc. Food and Nutrition View B.Voc Food Processing and Nutraceuticals PIMS - Padmashree Institute of Management & Sciences offering Food Processing and Nutraceuticals Course.  Best Food Processing college in Bangalore. Get Admission Now! View M.Voc Food Processing and Nutraceuticals View M.Voc Food Technology and Quality Management View Plant Tissue Culture View Plant Genetic Transformation View Phytochemical Techniques View Chromatographic Techniques View Quality control and Quality Assurance View Post Graduate Diploma in Food processing and Nutraceuticals View Diploma in Food processing and Nutraceuticals View Advanced Diploma in Food processing and Nutraceuticals PIMS has joined the Skill India mission by offering the Advanced Diploma in Food Processing and Nutraceuticals B.VOC., M.VOC. View PG Diploma in Food Processing and Nutraceuticals (BiSEP) Under BiSEP, PIMS offers PG Diploma in Food Processing and Nutraceuticals. View B.Voc Food Technology and Quality Management B.Voc Food Technology and Quality Management View B.Com. (Bachelor of Commerce) UG Degree Course B.Com is a three-year undergraduate degree that gives students a foundation in business and commerce principles. The course covers a variety of topics, including accounting, economics, business management, and taxation. View BBA Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences includes personality development workshops as a mandatory practice for all the students which trains and grooms the students and makes them ready to enter into the corporate world. View Master of Business Administration A sub-type of the full-time MBA program that is designed for upper management over a period of one or two years. View M.Com. (Master of Commerce) Master Degree Course | Padmashree Bangalore M.Com. (Masters of Commerce) is a postgraduate master's degree focusing on commerce, accounting, business administration, management and economics related subjects. This Masters degree course ideal for candidates who wish to make a career in banking financial services. View BPT - Bachelors in Physiotherapy To ensure students are well-prepared to navigate the real world of physical healthcare, this program has been meticulously crafted to combine theoretical learning with practical experience. View B.Sc. Medical Laboratory Technology (MLT) B.Sc. MLT is a comprehensive program designed to equip students with the theoretical knowledge and practical skills required to excel in the medical laboratory field. It emphasizes diagnostic techniques, laboratory procedures, and the use of cutting-edge technology. View M.Sc. in Medical Laboratory Technology (MLT) M.Sc. in Medical Laboratory Technology PG course is designed to provide in-depth theoretical knowledge and hands-on training in various diagnostic techniques, laboratory management, and cutting-edge medical research. Padmashree Institute of Health Sciences Bangalore View Bachelor of Hospital Administration (BHA) The Bachelor of Hospital Administration (BHA) at Padmashree Institute of Hospital Administration is a highly sought-after undergraduate program designed to develop future leaders in healthcare management. Affiliated with RGUHS & approved by the Govt. of Karnataka View Master of Hospital Administration (MHA) Master of Hospital Administration (MHA) at Padmashree Institute of Hospital Administration is a prestigious postgraduate program aimed at nurturing leaders & managers for the ever-growing healthcare industry. Affiliated with RGUHS & approved by the Govt. of Karnataka View Bachelor of Public Health (BPH) Bachelor of Public Health (BPH) is Undergraduate degree program at Padmashree Institute of Public Health, affiliated with RGUHS and approved by the Govt of Karnataka. View B.Sc. Nursing  (Bachelor of Science in Nursing) BSc Nursing (Bachelor of Science in Nursing) is a 4 year undergraduate degree program that prepares students to work as registered nurses in various health sectors. The program covers including psychology,  pharmacology, physiology, nutrition, anatomy and microbiology. View Master of Public Health (MPH) Master of Public Health is a PG Degree program at Padmashree Institute of Public Health, affiliated to RGUHS & approved by the Govt. of Karnataka, is a multidisciplinary postgraduate degree designed to prepare professionals to address global health challenges. View Master of Physiotherapy (MPT) View Masters in Clinical Research MSc in Clinical Research is a postgraduate program focused on the scientific, ethical & operational aspects of conducting clinical trials & research. This program provides individuals with the knowledge and skills to manage & contribute to the drug development process View Master Of Computer Applications (MCA) MCA (Master of Computer Applications) degrees offer a variety of career paths in the rapidly evolving IT and software development sectors View NAAC - IQAC Faculty Profile Research Nutraceutical Virtual museum ACIC-PIMS Events Terms and Conditions Terms and Conditions Welcome to PIMS! These terms and conditions outline the rules and regulations for the use of Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences's Website, located at https://www.pims.org.in/. By accessing this website we assume you accept these terms and conditions. Do not continue to use PIMS if you do not agree to take all of the terms and conditions stated on this page. The following terminology applies to these Terms and Conditions, Privacy Statement and Disclaimer Notice and all Agreements: "Client", "You" and "Your" refers to you, the person log on this website and compliant to the Company's terms and conditions. "The Company", "Ourselves", "We", "Our" and "Us", refers to our Company. "Party", "Parties", or "Us", refers to both the Client and ourselves. All terms refer to the offer, acceptance and consideration of payment necessary to undertake the process of our assistance to the Client in the most appropriate manner for the express purpose of meeting the Client's needs in respect of provision of the Company's stated services, in accordance with and subject to, prevailing law of in. Any use of the above terminology or other words in the singular, plural, capitalization and/or he/she or they, are taken as interchangeable and therefore as referring to same. Cookies We employ the use of cookies. By accessing PIMS, you agreed to use cookies in agreement with the Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences's Privacy Policy. Most interactive websites use cookies to let us retrieve the user's details for each visit. Cookies are used by our website to enable the functionality of certain areas to make it easier for people visiting our website. Some of our affiliate/advertising partners may also use cookies. License Unless otherwise stated, Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences and/or its licensors own the intellectual property rights for all material on PIMS. All intellectual property rights are reserved. You may access this from PIMS for your own personal use subjected to restrictions set in these terms and conditions. You must not: Republish material from PIMS Sell, rent or sub-license material from PIMS Reproduce, duplicate or copy material from PIMS Redistribute content from PIMS Parts of this website offer an opportunity for users to post and exchange opinions and information in certain areas of the website. Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences does not filter, edit, publish or review Comments prior to their presence on the website. Comments do not reflect the views and opinions of Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences,its agents and/or affiliates. Comments reflect the views and opinions of the person who post their views and opinions. To the extent permitted by applicable laws, Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences shall not be liable for the Comments or for any liability, damages or expenses caused and/or suffered as a result of any use of and/or posting of and/or appearance of the Comments on this website. Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences reserves the right to monitor all Comments and to remove any Comments which can be considered inappropriate, offensive or causes breach of these Terms and Conditions. You warrant and represent that: You are entitled to post the Comments on our website and have all necessary licenses and consents to do so; The Comments do not invade any intellectual property right, including without limitation copyright, patent or trademark of any third party; The Comments do not contain any defamatory, libelous, offensive, indecent or otherwise unlawful material which is an invasion of privacy The Comments will not be used to solicit or promote business or custom or present commercial activities or unlawful activity. You hereby grant Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences a non-exclusive license to use, reproduce, edit and authorize others to use, reproduce and edit any of your Comments in any and all forms, formats or media. Hyperlinking to our Content The following organizations may link to our Website without prior written approval: Government agencies; Search engines; News organizations; Online directory distributors may link to our Website in the same manner as they hyperlink to the Websites of other listed businesses; and System wide Accredited Businesses except soliciting non-profit organizations, charity shopping malls, and charity fundraising groups which may not hyperlink to our Web site. These organizations may link to our home page, to publications or to other Website information so long as the link: (a) is not in any way deceptive; (b) does not falsely imply sponsorship, endorsement or approval of the linking party and its products and/or services; and (c) fits within the context of the linking party's site. We may consider and approve other link requests from the following types of organizations: commonly-known consumer and/or business information sources; dot.com community sites; associations or other groups representing charities; online directory distributors; internet portals; accounting, law and consulting firms; and educational institutions and trade associations. We will approve link requests from these organizations if we decide that: (a) the link would not make us look unfavorably to ourselves or to our accredited businesses; (b) the organization does not have any negative records with us; (c) the benefit to us from the visibility of the hyperlink compensates the absence of Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences; and (d) the link is in the context of general resource information. These organizations may link to our home page so long as the link: (a) is not in any way deceptive; (b) does not falsely imply sponsorship, endorsement or approval of the linking party and its products or services; and (c) fits within the context of the linking party's site. If you are one of the organizations listed in paragraph 2 above and are interested in linking to our website, you must inform us by sending an e-mail to Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences. Please include your name, your organization name, contact information as well as the URL of your site, a list of any URLs from which you intend to link to our Website, and a list of the URLs on our site to which you would like to link. Wait 2-3 weeks for a response. Approved organizations may hyperlink to our Website as follows: By use of our corporate name; or By use of the uniform resource locator being linked to; or By use of any other description of our Website being linked to that makes sense within the context and format of content on the linking party's site. No use of Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences's logo or other artwork will be allowed for linking absent a trademark license agreement. iFrames Without prior approval and written permission, you may not create frames around our Webpages that alter in any way the visual presentation or appearance of our Website. Content Liability We shall not be hold responsible for any content that appears on your Website. You agree to protect and defend us against all claims that is rising on your Website. No link(s) should appear on any Website that may be interpreted as libelous, obscene or criminal, or which infringes, otherwise violates, or advocates the infringement or other violation of, any third party rights. Reservation of Rights We reserve the right to request that you remove all links or any particular link to our Website. You approve to immediately remove all links to our Website upon request. We also reserve the right to amen these terms and conditions and it's linking policy at any time. By continuously linking to our Website, you agree to be bound to and follow these linking terms and conditions. Removal of links from our website If you find any link on our Website that is offensive for any reason, you are free to contact and inform us any moment. We will consider requests to remove links but we are not obligated to or so or to respond to you directly. We do not ensure that the information on this website is correct, we do not warrant its completeness or accuracy; nor do we promise to ensure that the website remains available or that the material on the website is kept up to date. Disclaimer To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, we exclude all representations, warranties and conditions relating to our website and the use of this website. Nothing in this disclaimer will: limit or exclude our or your liability for death or personal injury; limit or exclude our or your liability for fraud or fraudulent misrepresentation; limit any of our or your liabilities in any way that is not permitted under applicable law; or exclude any of our or your liabilities that may not be excluded under applicable law. The limitations and prohibitions of liability set in this Section and elsewhere in this disclaimer: (a) are subject to the preceding paragraph; and (b) govern all liabilities arising under the disclaimer, including liabilities arising in contract, in tort and for breach of statutory duty. As long as the website and the information and services on the website are provided free of charge, we will not be liable for any loss or damage of any nature. ADMISSION ENQUIRY 2026 Close modal ADMISSION ENQUIRY 2026 Close