PDF Document

 2021 
website: www.pims.org.in
POLICY 
Research & Innovation Policy                                                                                         
                              
RESEARCH AND INNOVATION POLICY 
 
Preamble: 
 
Padmashree Research Centre affiliated with Bangalore University has an excellent 
ecosystem for research activities. The institution  is committed to providing support to 
quality research and has a  mission to address scientific challenges to society and the 
environment. The research team and advisory committee are continuously striving towards 
excellence in research. Research collaborations with reputed academic institutions and 
industries are vibrant and intellectually stimulating. The goal of Padmashree is to achieve 
research excellence and disseminate innovations  to the entire world. The quest for 
innovation and research is proven with a track record of securing projects and grants from 
state, national , and private agencies. Research advisory is a  good amalgamation of 
academic, and industry experts and made continuous efforts in inculcating scientific temper 
and igniting creative spirit. We encourage student research projects and train them to secure 
small research grants for pursuing the research. This policy aims to nurture research culture 
and cater to the good of society through innovation and technology transfer. Ethics is the  
central dogma of the Padmashree research center and policy reiterates the research 
principles and ethics. Faculty and students are encouraged to undertake research, leading to 
quality publications, presentations in national conferences of repute, generation of 
intellectual property for communication that is of useful for society. 
A clear demarcation of funds and resources will surely strengthen our research, and this will 
attract distinguished faculty to develop a culture of research and stride to achieve national 
and international recognitions and publications. Establishing chairs and fellowships can 
help nurture  research at Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences. Research 
policy is aimed at design and deployment of policies on innovation, patenting, academic 
integrity, and commercialization of technology through consultancy. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Research & Innovation Policy                                                                                         
Overview of Research and Innovation policy 
 
  
 
 
Purpose of the Research Policy 
The policy provides guidelines  and defines the  roles and responsibilities of all the 
stakeholders. The policy      shall serve as a general outline for the conduct of all types of 
research activities of the Institution.  The policy document enables the research and 
innovation culture, provides strategies, and enables effective implementation.  
The purpose of the research policy is to create a vibrant atmosphere of research among 
faculty, students, and researchers. The policy aims to facilitate the efficient implementation 
of excellence                     in research, innovation, and collaboration and raise awareness pertaining to 
best practices in research and innovation. 
 
 
Research & Innovation Policy                                                                                         
Scope of the Research Policy 
The policy will be applicable to all the departments of the institute and applicable to all the 
faculty and students either funded or otherwise. This is applicable to all the members 
pursuing research within/outside institution premises. The research policy pertains  to the 
wide strategic interests of the institution including partnerships, collaborations, 
publications, consultancies, and MoUs. 
  Objectives 
 To foster research culture and extend support to research and innovation within 
the research framework and guidelines. 
 To design strategic research policy and inculcate good governance to achieve a 
center for                        excellence. 
 To ensure quality and ethics in the research publications. 
 To provide systems for coordination among the research team and with 
collaborating institutes or individuals. 
 Providing modality for proper coordination of all research activities aligning with 
the vision and mission of the institution. 
 Ensure publications in quality journals, indexed in Scopus/web of Science with 
impact factor. 
 Integrate research activities undertaken by the students with the research focus 
of the institution in alignment with the societal impact. 
 Promoting technology transfer and translational research, into deliverable 
products and processes for commercialization. 
Custodian of the policy 
The implementation and updating of the research policy shall be carried out by the 
director/head of research,  Padmashree research center. The research policy shall have a 
research advisory body to function under  the board of management and director. The 
Director along with the research coordinator will ensure the smooth implementation of the 
research policy. The research  cell is responsible for organizing meetings, reviews,  
execution, and monitoring of the activities and disseminating the vision and objectives of 
the institution’s research policy. Annual management board meetings shall resolve issues, 
and deliberate policy implementation, budgetary requirements, resource mobilization, and 
action plans.  
Research & Innovation Policy                                                                                         
 Research Management Board 
 Chairman 
 Director 
 Principal/R&D Director 
   Research Advisory Committee (RAC) 
 Principal – Director R&D 
 Director – PGI 
 Research cell Coordinator 
 Senior faculty members 
 Bangalore University nominee 
 Experts from Industry 
 Experts from Academia 
 
Research Coordination Committee (RCC) 
 Principal – Director 
 R&D Research cell Coordinator  
 Heads of various departments 
 Members – Senior faculty 
 The Research Advisory Committee constituted by the management board meets 
half-yearly and reviews the progress of the research and innovation cell. RAC plays 
an advisory role and guides toward growth and development. 
The RCC will meet on a quarterly basis, to review the progress of the research work, 
identifies the research problems, discusses the various funding opportunities, reviews the 
proposals, prepare a  budget, defines SOPs for lab maintenance, and monitors all the 
research activities of the institute. 
Strategic Plan and research promotion policy 
The institution has a well-defined research promotion policy and has established a research 
coordination committee, and research development fund , and strengthened its research 
infrastructure. Research policy is a clearly defined strategic plan and is as given below. 
  
Research & Innovation Policy                                                                                         
           Research priorities and thirst areas 
The Padmashree research center in consultation with external experts and members of RAC 
and RCC has identified life sciences, allied health Sciences, food, nutrition, nutraceuticals, 
societal research, and environmental sciences as priority areas of research based on the 
strengths and expertise. 
 
Infrastructure: 
The Institution has a well -defined action plan and development fund, which enabled it to 
strengthen its  research infrastructure including a central instrumentation facility, 
specialized research labs,  a library, and a research /statistical database. The major goals 
with respect to infrastructure are as follows: 
 State of art facilities for Biotechnology, Microbiology, and Biochemistry  
 Augmentation of central instrumentation facility 
 NABL accreditation 
 Quality testing lab for Biopharma, Nutraceuticals, and Food products. 
 
Budget and resource mobilization 
The annual budget will be planned by RCC and will be approved by the management board. 
Recommendations of the advisory committee will be considered while drafting the 
budget. The annual budget is decided based on the strategic plan and the existing support 
from the funding agency. The budget proposed will be presented by the research director to 
the management board for approval. Implementation, financial audit, and research audit will 
be done at two levels. Internal auditing  and external auditing will be taken up and a 
statement of expenditure, utilization certificate , and progress report will be submitted as 
per the norms. 
National, international, and private funding agencies: 
Eligible faculty members and students are encouraged to secure grants and funds from 
various agencies. The grant proposals need to be reviewed and scrutinized by the research 
coordination committee. The grant proposals will be revised based on the recommendations 
and will be submitted through the proper channel to the funding agency. The action plan 
for securing grants from funding agencies is clearly defined and is given below.  
Research & Innovation Policy                                                                                         
The research  cell identifies funding agencies, call for proposals, and grant  in aid and 
informs all the  eligible members. Draft proposals from the members will be secured, 
scrutinized, and brainstormed. With suitable modifications and possible collaborations, 
proposals will be revised and submitted to the RCC. After final approval from the research 
coordination committee, proposals will be submitted to the funding agency. After grants are 
secured, a purchase committee will be constituted. The role of the purchase committee is to 
secure quotations either through e -tendering or through mail. The entire mechanism shall 
be transparent. Project progress review meetings shall be conducted  periodically, and 
support will be provided wherever necessary. The project investigator will be rewarded 
with incentives and the incentive will be recommended by the committee and approved by 
the management board. 
 
Research Management and Ethics 
The research  coordination committee will be responsible for the implementation and 
management of research activities. Under the research coordination committee, there will 
be sub-committees/teams for purchase, extension, research collaboration, project 
management, literature resource, contract  R&D activities, conferences organizing team, 
regulatory compliance, ethical committee, and recognitions. 
The Institute shall recruit faculty members and researchers who have 
demonstrable/demonstrated capability in research. Faculty incentives and promotion may 
significantly depend on projects undertaken. The quality of research output, especially 
research publications, may be assessed based on Impact Factor (IF) and H index. 
Students are encouraged to work on dissertations or small funded projects reviewed by the 
peer-scientific team and ethical committee. The Institution provides awareness of academic 
and research misconduct like plagiarism for promoting and improving the qua lity of 
research. Any work involving animal models, clinical research will be submitted to RCC 
and ethical committee for clearance. Unethical practices, plagiarism, data theft, copying is 
not tolerated, and  disciplinary action shall be initiated. It is exp ected that each member 
involved in research such as faculty, researchers, and postgraduate researchers will adhere 
to highest ethical standards of conduct. Ethical standards of conduct include data integrity, 
adhering to ethical guidelines, given  from time to time, for carrying out research. Each 
faculty member and researcher shall follow academic honesty in his/her research work. The  
Research & Innovation Policy                                                                                         
faculty and researchers shall be careful not to fall prey to academic dishonesty. A 
disciplinary committee, on the instruction of the chairman, shall be formed to carry out an 
inquiry when academic dishonesty is reported against an individual/team.  Suitable  
disciplinary action may be initiated, if found guilty, against such individual/team. 
Plagiarism or any form of copying and research misconduct is claimed to be unethical and 
will be a punishable offense under the law. The  research misconduct includes self-
plagiarism, fabrication, falsification, manipulation of research work data or images / digital 
images/use of unreliable and duplicate images, exaggeration on any part of results and 
interpretation, use of unauthenticated statistical tools for analysis, and ghost authorship. 
 
Conferences, workshops, and seminars 
The Institution shall encourage to organize conferences, seminars, symposia, workshops, 
and hands-on training by providing financial assistance. The proposals shall be submitted 
to granting agencies for support. Academic partners, knowledge partners, industry partners, 
and publishing  partners shall be identified, and collaborations shall be established. 
Financial support is provided for faculty and students to attend State/National/International 
conferences. Support shall be extended for prize-winning posters/presentations. Budgetary 
provisions shall be made for cash incentives for publication in reputed journals. 
Collaborations and MOUs: 
Members of the research cell shall be encouraged to collaborate with inter and intra-
institutional researchers. Industrial live projects and consulta ncies shall be a major focus 
of the institution.  Collaborations and MOUs are formulated including ownership of 
materials, procedures, data,  IPRs, joint publications, managing research findings , and 
commercializing research outcomes.  Researchers must acquai nt themselves with all 
aspects including the national and international requirements of the research collaborations, 
mandatory approvals, memorandums of understanding (MOU), material transfer agreements 
(MTA), and approval of collaborating institutes,  researchers for undertaking  inter-
institutional research. 
 
Research Data Management 
Padmashree Research Centre effectively manages and maintains the data generated by 
research project work as an important part of research and innovation practice. The  
Research & Innovation Policy                                                                                         
following steps are undertaken for data management: 
 
Documentation in the blue data book 
 Clear instructions and mechanism for generating data Digitalization of daily 
research work done 
 Assurance of integrity in research data management 
 Advanced data protection, storage, and minimizing the risk of data loss. Enablement 
of authenticated data transfer and collaboration. 
 Follow the principle of open access to publicly funded research project data 
deliverables. Compliance with the requirements of funding agencies and industries. 
 Responsible for data handling with proper storage and protection against accidental 
loss, damage, and theft. 
 
Ensuring authorships in publications and patents 
Periodic review of research output shall be carried out by each department and provide 
such information to the research cell, RCC, and IQAC, periodically (preferably quarterly) 
for assessment and recommendations for publication and patenting. 
 
IPR 
The patent  facilitating cell shall be constituted with one patent attorney as an external 
member and other  RCC members. This sub-team shall provide guidelines for patent 
drafting, filing, and examination. Annual training sessions on the same shall be organized 
by inviting experts. Financial assistance shall be provided for filing patents. 
Padmashree Research Centre has adopted the definitions of research misconduct set out by 
the university grants commission, (promotion of academic integrity  and prevention of 
plagiarism in higher educational institutions) regulations. 