PDF Document

PROGRAM OUTCOME AND PROGRAM SPECIFIC OUTCOME   
PG DEPARTMENT OF FOOD SCIENCE  
 MSC FOOD AND NUTRITION  
Program outcome: 
PO 1   
 
To provide quality education to make the students technically competent to face the 
challenges in the field of Food Science, Nutrition and Dietetics. 
PO2 To impart knowledge and skills necessary to work in research laboratories, food 
industries, health sector and at the community level. 
PO3 To synergize a new generation with professional competence to face the challenges 
of the food processing sector 
 
Program specific outcome: 
PSO 1 To provide advanced knowledge and skills in highly job oriented courses in the 
areas of Food Processing, Quality Control, Food Safety, and Nutritional 
Sciences.  
PSO 2 To conduct need based multidisciplinary research for improving the livelihood 
of the community and the nation. 
PSO 3 To identify food based strategies for alleviating nutritional problems to achieve 
nutrition and health security.  
PSO 4 To develop entrepreneurial skills by providing skill development programmes 
in commercial food processing. 
 
 
1PROGRAM OUTCOME AND PROGRAM SPECIFIC OUTCOME   
PG DEPARTMENT OF FOOD SCIENCE  
MSC IN CLINICAL NUTRITION AND DIETETICS 
Program outcome: 
PO 1   
 
Clinical Nutrition & Dietetics is a specialized area of nutrition that requires specific training. Clinical 
nutrition is concerned with therapeutic uses of nutrition, usually as part of a complete health care 
program. 
PO2 Clinical Nutritionists create effective nutrition plans aimed at disease prevention and treatment, 
strengthening of the immune system, and nourishment of the body. 
PO3 This subject teaches the students about food, components of food, diet and their role in physiological 
and biochemical changes in the body. 
PO4 This course helps students to learn on basics of food and nutrients, metabolic pathways, physiology of 
different organs and their functioning, diet planning for different age groups, Different methods of 
cooking, Specific nutrition needs, food safety to know about sanitation and hygiene, diet for different 
disease conditions, food borne illnesses by microbes. 
PO5 This course makes students equipped to learn the strategies to overcome problem of malnutrition and 
deficiencies through proper knowledge, 
PO6 They also will learn about the role of physical activity and exercise in health,  nutraceuticals and their 
benefits 
 
Program specific outcome: 
PSO 1 This course helps students to learn on basics of food and nutrients, metabolic pathways, physiology 
of different organs and their functioning. 
PSO 2 After completing this course students will be able to plan diet for different age groups 
PSO 3 They will understand about different methods of cooking 
PSO 4 This course emphasizes on specific nutritional needs of a person 
PSO 5 The students will understand importance of food safety and know about sanitation and hygiene, diet 
for different disease conditions, food borne illnesses by microbes 
PSO 6 At the end of this course students understand Specific nutrition needs, how to overcome problem of 
malnutrition and deficiencies  
PSO 7 They understand Role of physical activity and exercise in health, nutraceuticals and their benefits. 
 
2MACHINERIES, PACKAGING, LABELLING AND REGULATIONS 
CO 1 The course will help to understand the Emerging Packaging Technology, Edible 
Packaging Systems, Smart packaging, active and intelligent packaging technologies. 
CO 2 It deals with: Food process equipment design, it gives insight about principles types 
performance and evaluation of food packaging system. 
CO 3 This course emphasizes on Laws, Regulations and Guidance, Functions of Labelling. 
Students will gain knowledge on international food legislation & standards and Food 
safety  
 
Formulations and Ready-to-Eat Technologies: 
CO 1 This course emp hasizes on  Introduction, need for convenience food and types, 
Advantages - Ready to eat/ ready to cook/ready to serve foods and its manufacturing 
process. 
CO 2 It deals with Technology for the manufacture of bakery products, Extruded snack foods: 
Formulation and processing technology, Formulation of functional foods containing 
nutraceutical – stability and analytical issues. 
CO 3 Students will understand the Formulation of special dietary foods; Formulation of nutrient 
rich foods; Therapeutic, Parenteral and Geriatric nutrition and relevant food formulations; 
formulation of therapeutic and probiotics foods, determination of Glycaemic index of 
selected foods. 
CO 4 Formulation of Spread and Bakery Shorteners High Protein Foods Packaging of Ready to 
Eat Foods. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3PROGRAM OUTCOME AND PROGRAM SPECIFIC OUTCOME   
PG DEPARTMENT OF FOOD SCIENCE  
 MVOC FOOD TECHNOLOGY AND QUALITY MANAGEMENT  
Program outcome: 
PO 1   
 
It is a skill enhancement program for students interested in food technology and quality management 
sector and enhance employability in quality control department of food industry 
PO2 This course helps students to become industry ready and gives life science students excellent 
opportunity to acquire skills and apply them in the 6 months industry internship which is a part of the 
curriculum. 
PO3 This program will impart ability to apply principles to maintain quality of food in food industry. 
PO4 This program will impart training in industry -oriented skills required in food technology and quality 
management in food industry 
 
Program specific outcome: 
PSO 1  It is a general course emphasizing Technology and quality control involved in food industry 
PSO 2 After completing this course student will have a knowledge in food quality and management, Food 
chemistry, Food Safety Management Systems Food Fortification and Food Additives  and Food 
product development and sensory evaluation. 
PSO 3 It also emphasis on  food and allied industries, safety, regulations, control and entrepreneurship in 
food sector. 
PSO 4 It also deals with machineries, packaging, labelling and regulations and formulations in food 
industry. 
PSO 5 It also deals with the basics of biochemical and microbiological techniques, fermentation and 
enzyme technology 
PSO 6 It gives the learner the insight on biostatistics, research methodology which is a requisite if students 
want to go for research.  
PSO 7 The course emphasizes on improvi ng the practical sk Techniques  in Food Processing , Analytical 
techniques in food industry, methodologies in enzyme technology and fermentation, quality control 
and quality assurance, industrial practices in food industries, practices in biochemical and 
microbiological techniques.  
PSO 8 Practical application and theory for one and half year along with project work for product 
development at college and six months on job training in the industry will make the student industry 
ready.  
 
 
4PROGRAMME OUTCOMES  
MSc. BIOTECHNOLOGY 
Upon completion of the MSc. Biotechnology Programme, the candidate should be able to 
PO1 Understand the basic knowledge and concepts of biotechnology and other interdisciplinary subjects 
PO2 Ability to apply their knowledge in experiments which they can conduct independently 
PO3 practical exposure to the basic and the advanced fields of biotechnology 
PO4 Gain practical knowledge about advanced subject area like nanobiotechnology, multi omics, 
immunotechnology, and animal, plant and agriculture biotechnology 
PO5 Advancement of their professional career and employment in  diverse areas of biotechnology 
PO6 Student can solve, analyze and interpret data generated from experiments done in project work or 
practical courses 
PO7 Learn modern analytical tools/ software/ equipments and analyze and solve problems in various 
courses of biotechnology 
 
Programme Specific Outcome 
PSO1 Students will be able to Understand  and apply their knowledge of  Animal Biotechnology, Plant 
Biotechnology, cell biology, biochemistry,  microbiology to solve the problems related to the field 
of biotechnology 
PSO2 Apply their knowledge in performing experiments  
PSO4 Gain practical knowledge about advanced subject area like nanobiotechnology, multi omics, 
immunotechnology, and animal, plant and agriculture biotechnology 
PSO5 Advancement of their profes sional skill  and employment opportunity in  diverse areas of 
biotechnology 
PSO6 Student can solve, analyze and interpret data generated from the laboratory 
PSO7 Learn various analytical tools/ software/ equipments and solve problems in various courses of 
biotechnology 
 
 
 
5MSc. Microbiology Programme Outcomes 
PO1 Acquire knowledge on fundamentals and advanced aspects of microbiology 
PO2 Understand details of bacterial, fungal, algal and viral morphology and physiology 
PO3 Student will able to cultivate and characterize bacterial and fungal strains, immune function and 
recombinant DNA technology 
PO4 Able to understand the concepts and development of microbial diseases in animals & plants 
PO5 Will have gained in -depth knowledge about basic and advanced microbiology which lead to various 
career opportunity 
 
Programme Specific Outcome 
PSO1 Students will gain knowledge in principles and applications of microbiology to be applied in various 
field 
PSO2 Enrich research knowledge and understanding of the microbiology and can apply in various research 
and innovation.  
PSO4 Students will be able to understand  methodologies based on modern techniques to be used in 
research institutions and other industries. 
PSO5 Eligible for pursuing higher  education (M.Phil,  Ph.D) in the different fields . Eligble to qualify 
various examinations such as CSIR -NET, ARS -NET GATE,ICMR, DBT -BET and many other 
examination. 
PSO6 Students can start entrepreneurship ventures such as  consultancy, diagnostic centre  and other 
industries 
PSO7 Fetch career opportunities for students with microbiology background in various countries. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6 
MSc. BIOCHEMISTRY Programme Outcomes 
PO1 Skill Development: Master academic, technical, managerial a nd crucial soft skills to qualify for 
careers in research, industry, education, administration and management or for higher studies where a 
holistic understanding of applied biosciences is required 
PO2 Communication: Acquire effective communication and creat ive expression skills in the form of 
writing, design, presentation and networking to convincingly articulate scientific ideas in biosciences 
and related fields 
PO3 Research: Develop a scientific mindset with the capacity for analytical and innovative thinking  and 
practical knowhow to formulate, design and ethically implement scientific research in frontier areas 
of Biochemistry, Biotechnology and Microbiology 
PO4 Employment and Entrepreneurship: Acquire the necessary knowledge and proficiencies to become 
employable or get self -employed and thereby create job opportunities through entrepreneurship in 
heath, agriculture, industry, environment and allied areas of applied biosciences and thereby 
affirmatively contribute to scientific social responsibility. 
 
Programme Specific Outcome 
PSO1 Demonstrate an understanding of structure and metabolism of macromolecules and  understand the 
regulation and disorders of metabolic pathways 
PSO2 Gain proficiency in laboratory techniques in both biochemistry and molecular biology, and be able to 
apply the scientific method; these technologies help to address the biological and medical challenges 
faced by humankind 
PSO3 Acquire thorough knowledge in biochemical techniques, immunology, physiology and 
Biotechnology 
PSO4 Learn to work as a team as well as independently to retrieve information, carry out Research 
investigations and result interpretations 
PSO5 Develop the ability to understand and practice the ethics surrounding scientific Research 
PSO6 Realize the impact of science in society and plan to pursue research 
 
7COURSE OUTCOME  
MSc. MICROBIOLOGY 
MBH 101: Bacteriology and Virology 
CO1 The basic concepts of classification, nomenclature and recent advances in the microbial taxonomy 
can be learned.  
CO2 Structure, cellular components and reproduction of bacteria can be studied.  
CO3 Nutritional requirement and different cultivation techniques can be learned.  
CO4 Nomenclature and classification of the virus can be studied 
CO5 Knowledge about the different viral cultivation techniques will be gained.  
 
MBH 102: Eukaryotic microbiology 
CO1 Importance of protozoa, their structure and cultivation can be learnt. 
CO2 Isolation, cultivation and classification of algae and their reproduction will be studied.  
CO3 Knowledge with respect to the applications part of algae i n food, fuel and therapeutics will be 
gained.  
CO4 Structure, growth and reproduction of different fungi will be studied.  
CO5 Classification of fungi and their importance in various field will be learnt.  
 
MBH 103: Microbial Physiology and Biochemistry 
CO1 Complete information regarding the microbial metabolites, stress response in microbes and 
bioluminescence in microbes will be gained.  
CO2 Definition of enzyme their mechanism of action and kinetics will be studied.  
CO3 Metabolism of carbohydrate, fermentation pathways, bioenergetics and energy production will be 
taught.  
CO4 Students will be gaining knowledge in the field of lipid classification, structure and their 
biosynthesis pathways. 
CO5 Structure of nucleic acid, and the synthesis of purine s and pyrimidine’s will be taught to the 
students.  
 
MBH 104: Microbial and Biochemical techniques 
CO1 Different isolation techniques, and preservation of microorganism will be learnt by the students.  
CO2 Different microbial growth measuring techniques will be taught to students.  
CO3 Students will be learning about the concepts like metagenomics.  
CO4 Different Spectrophotometry, spectroscopy, chromatography, electrophoresis techniques will be 
taught to students. 
CO5 Different isotopes, their labelling and safety guidelines will be taught to the students.  
 
 
 
 
8PROGRAM OUTCOME AND PROGRAM SPECIFIC OUTCOME 
MASTER OF COMMERCE 
 
Program Outcome: 
PO 1 Demonstrate professional skills for global employability and lifelong learning. 
PO 2 Apply the knowledge of accounts, taxes, management fundamentals and corporate practices 
to find the solution for problems in business and commerce. 
PO 3 Application of strategies in their job/work by the contextual knowledge to various 
accounting and finance concepts.  
PO 4 Conduct business ethically follow professional ethics, responsibilities and norms  
 
 
Program specific outcome: 
 
PSO 1 Apply relevant knowledge and financial tools in manufacturing and service operations of 
the nation and region. 
PSO 2 Demonstrate technical and decision making skills in the areas of national taxation, global 
accounting, finance and banking. 
PSO 3 Formulate organizational decisions through applied research in commerce. 
PSO 4 Identify, formulate, review research literature, and analyse complex business problems 
reaching substantiated conclusions using principles and practices of accountancy and 
general management techniques. 
 
9    M.SC FOOD AND NUTRITION  
Course Outcome 
HSFN 101 -   HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY  
CO1 Enable the students to understand the integrated function of all body systems 
CO2 Advance their understanding of some of the relevant issues and topics of human physiology  
CO3 Enables students study the recent advances in human physiology  
CO4 Acquire basic knowledge on Human Physiology 
 
HSFN 102 - NUTRITIONAL BIOCHEMISTRY 
 
HSFN 103 - HUMAN NUTRITION 
CO1 Provides in-depth knowledge of the physiological and metabolic role of macro and micro nutrients 
and their importance in human nutrition.  
CO2 Students get familiarise with the recent advances in nutrition and apply this knowledge in planning 
for public health programme.  
CO3 Enables the students to translate the knowledge into practical guidelines for dietary needs of human 
nutrition at different stages of life.  
 
HSFN 104 - RESEARCH METHODOLOGY 
CO1 Student develops a scientific approach and understand the process of research  
CO2 Enables students to develop the competence for selecting methods and tools appropriate for research 
topics  
CO3 Prepares the students to design and carry out research studies in the field of food and nutrition  
 
 
CO1 Enables student to acquire knowledge on biochemistry at the undergraduate level.  
CO2 Make students to become proficient for specialization in nutrition and dietetics.  
CO3 Attains understanding on integration of cellular level metabolic events to nutritional disorders and 
imbalances.  
CO4 Students acquire knowledge on nutritional biochemistry  
10HSFN 105 - FOOD PRESERVATION 
CO1 Students gain  knowledge about principles and methods of food preservation 
CO2 Students will have an in-depth knowledge about types of food preservation 
CO3 Attains understanding on  the preservation by high temperature like dehydration, canning 
CO4 Learns about the preservation by low temperature by chilling and freezing 
CO5 students enhance their knowledge about irradiation, fermentation, preservation by preservatives 
CO6 Learns about different packaging used in food industry and its advantages and disadvantages  
 
HSFN 201 - STATISTICS 
CO1 Enables students apply statistical techniques to research data for analyzing and for interpretation 
of data.  
CO2 Enables students to summarize data and present it using tables and graphs.  
CO3 Attains knowledge to understand the components of research proposals.  
 
HSFN 202 - FOOD SCIENCE 
 
HSFN 203 - NUTRITION THROUGH LIFE SPAN 
 
 
 
CO1 Students understand the role of nutrition in different stages of life span 
CO2 Provides the guidelines for Adequate Nutrition throughout life span 
CO3 Students get acquainted with growth, development and physiological changes during pregnancy 
lactation and infancy 
CO4 Enables to understand the interrelationship between nutrition and growth and development during 
these phases 
CO1 Provides an understanding of composition of various food stuffs  
CO2 Familiarise students with changes occurring in various foodstuffs as a result of processing and 
cooking  
CO3 Enable students to use their theoretical knowledge in various applications and food preparations  
CO4 Familiarise the students with the recent trends in food science  
11HSFN 204 - FOOD SANITATION AND HYGIENE 
CO1 Enable the students to inculcate the sanitary aspects of safe of handling food  
CO2 Helps  the students gain knowledge of personal and environmental hygiene  
CO3 Learn more about hygiene and sanitation 
 
HSFN 205 – SOFT CORE-FOOD MICROBIOLOGY 
CO1 Familiarizes the students with recent advances in food microbiology  
CO2 Learn concepts of fermented foods, dairy, food preservation, detection of food -borne diseases, their 
control measures. 
CO3 Gains consciousness on types of food spoilage, sterilization techniques 
CO4 Acquires awareness on dairy products, cereal products, a nd fish meat products and their sources of 
contaminations 
 
HSFN 301 - CLINICAL NUTRITION AND DIETETICS - I 
CO1 Student understands the biochemical and Physiological impartments in diseases.  
CO2 Student understands the role of Nutrition for good  
CO3 Obtains knowledge of dietary factors and dietary management of various diseases  
CO4 Develops capacity and attitude for taking up dietetics as a profession  
 
HSFN 302 - PUBLIC HEALTH NUTRITION 
 
HSFN 303 - FOOD SERVICE MANAGEMENT 
CO1 Student develops knowledge in areas of institutional food administration  
CO2 Provides practical field level experience in institutional food administration  
CO3 Impacts necessary expertise to function as a food service manager  
CO4 Equips students  to start their own food service unit leading to entrepreneurship  
 
 
CO1 Students gain insight into the national nutritional Problems and their implications in diseases 
CO2 Familiarise the students regarding the preventive measures and management of nutritional problems 
CO3 Develops the skills in organising and evaluating nutrition projects in the community 
12HSFN 304 - PHYSICAL FITNESS 
CO1 Students understand the components of health and fitness and the role of Nutrition  
CO2 Attains dietary and physical activity recommendations to achieve fitness and well being  
CO3 Develops ability to evacuate fitness and wellbeing  
CO4 Enables student to know the significance of sports nutrition components  
 
HSFN 305 – CYBER SPACE  
CO1 To educate about the regulation of cyber space at national and international level. 
CO2 To enhance the understanding of problems arising out of online transactions and provoke them to 
find solutions 
CO3 To understand the history of internet and understand the timeline under which it has evolved  
 
HSFN 401 - CLINICAL NUTRITION AND DIETETICS - II 
CO1 Student understands the biochemical and Physiological impartments in diseases.  
CO2 Obtain knowledge of dietary factors and dietary management of various diseases/ disorders  
CO3 Learns more about clinical nutrition  
 
HSFN 402 - NUTRITION IN CRITICAL CARE 
HSFN 403 - NUTRITION IN EMERGENCIES AND DISASTERS 
CO1 Familiarizes students with various natural and emergencies and disasters having an impact on 
nutrition and health status  
CO2 Enables student to understand the Special nutritional arising out of these situations  
CO3 Understands the strategies for nutritional rehabilitation management of the health of emergency affected 
populations  
CO4 Enables students to gain knowledge on nutrition in emergencies and disasters 
 
CO1 This course enables the student to understand the physiology, metabolism and s pecial nutritional 
requirements of the critically ill. 
CO2 Familiarizes with the special nutritional support techniques and feeding formulations of critically ill to 
meet their nutritional needs  
CO3  Enables students to gain knowledge on nutrition in critical care 
13HSFN 404 - FOOD ADULTERATION AND FOOD ADDITIVES 
CO1 Enables  the students to identify the commonly used adulterants in food  
CO2 Helps students to know the different food additives used and the role of additives in 
food science.  
CO3 Gains knowledge on food adulteration and food additives 
 
 
 
 
14M. Sc CLINICAL NUTRITION & DIETETICS 
SEMESTER – I COURSE OUTCOME: 
CND 101: Human Physiology 
CO1 To understand the structure of various organ systems in the human body 
CO2 To understand the integrated functions of various organ systems in the 
human body 
CO3 To understand the role of various organs in the maintenance of health 
CO4 To describe the organization of tissues and organs 
CO5 To understand the basic and advanced physiological processes, and analyse 
their biological meaning, regulation and integration 
 
CND 102: Fundamentals of food and nutrition 
CO1 To understand the concept of meal preparation 
CO2 To understand the role of hospital food service system 
CO3 To provide students with the knowledge of basic terminology and several 
aspects of nutrition and the functions of food in healthy life sustenance 
CO4 To understand the basics of nutrient requirement 
CO5 To understand the various functions of food and its role in day-to-day life  
 
CND 103: Human Nutrition 
CO1 To understand the factors affecting nutrient absorption 
CO2 To highlight the physiological and metabolic role of nutrients and their 
relationship to human health and well-being 
CO3 To understand the health problems associated with nutrient deficiency or 
toxicity 
CO4 To determine the various methods of energy expenditure and the factors 
affecting it 
CO5 To understand the role of nutrients – both macro and micro – in maintain 
health of an individual 
 
 
 
15CND 104: Metabolism 
CO1 To get an insight into interrelationships between various metabolic 
pathways. 
CO2 To understand the mechanisms adopted by the human body for regulation 
of metabolic pathways. 
CO3 To understand the role of catabolic and anabolic pathways in cellular 
metabolism 
CO4 To understand the role of free radicals and antioxidants in health and disease 
CO5 To understand the metabolic disorders of various hormones and enzymes 
 
CND 105: Research methodology & scientific writing 
CO1 To identify, compare and prepare the key elements of a research proposal 
CO2 To develop skills in qualitative and quantitative data analysis 
CO3 To learn the various aspects of research process 
CO4 To develop advanced critical thinking skills in students 
CO5 To inculcate scientific and inductive thinking in students 
 
SEMESTER – II COURSE OUTCOME: 
CND 201: Life cycle and Nutrition 
CO1 To relate food and nutrients to the biological requirements of humans at 
different stages of life cycle 
CO2 To understand the nutrition -related concerns specific to each stage of the 
human life cycle to consequences for health and disease 
CO3 To reflect upon the consequences of physical, biochemical, physiological, 
social and psychological factors impacting nutritional intake and status 
during each stage of the human life cycle  
CO4 To design food plans to meet the needs of humans at various l ife cycle 
stages 
CO5 To understand the developmental stages of  infant during pregnancy and 
lactation 
 
 
 
16CND 202: Clinical nutrition and Diet therapy-I 
CO1 To understand the basic principles of diet and diet therapy 
CO2 To acquire knowledge of modifications of normal diet for therapeutic 
purposes 
CO3 To acquire the skills and techniques involved in the planning and 
preparation of therapeutic diets for various ailments 
CO4 To develop the capacity and attitude for taking dietetics as a profession 
CO5 To apply the different diets for patients appropriately 
 
CND 203: Food microbiology and food safety 
CO1 To understand the microorganisms in foods and its relation to health 
CO2 To study about contaminated food and infectious diseases 
CO3 To understand the importance and significance of microorganisms in food 
CO4 To understand the factors influencing food spoilage 
CO5 To study the various food borne diseases  
 
CND 204: Public health Nutrition 
CO1 To gain knowledge on the current nutritional scenario 
CO2 To understand the policies towards nutritional security 
CO3 To gain knowledge of the various existing public health programmes and to 
understand its functioning and role towards public 
CO4 To learn about the policies and improve nutritional status of public. 
CO5 To understand the role of nutritionist in educating the public about nutrition. 
 
CND 205: Biostatistics 
CO1 To learn basic statistical procedures for research 
CO2 To understand applications of statistical techniques for analysis and 
interpretation 
CO3 To use selective software for qualitative and quantitative data analysis 
CO4 To understand the basic principles and applications of probability 
CO5 To learn about various statistical tests 
 
 
17SEMESTER – III COURSE OUTCOME: 
CND 301: Nutrition in physical fitness 
CO1 To understand the role of nutrition in management of health 
CO2 Understand the role of physical activity in management of health 
CO3 To understand the composition of human body and its changes through life 
cycle 
CO4 To understand the physiological changes during physical activity in various 
organ systems of the body 
CO5 To gain knowledge on the anti -doping regulations and the various 
organizations involved in its making 
 
CND 302: Nutrigenomics and Nutraceuticals 
CO1 To familiarize students with the basic concepts in nutritional genomics and 
to develop an understanding of genomics and gene regulation with respect 
to diet and to obtain an appreciation for the role and importance of nutrition 
in prevention of polygenic diseases. 
CO2 Students will gain knowledge to apply nutrigenomics and to design 
nutritional strategies for prevention of chronic diseases such as 
cardiovascular disease, obesity, type-2 diabetes and cancer. 
CO3 To gain knowledge of the various phytochemicals and their potential health 
benefits 
CO4 To understand the role of nutraceuticals and functional foods in pediatrics, 
geriatrics, sports, pregnancy and lactation 
CO5 To understand the concepts of nutraceuticals  through traditional food and 
medicine. 
 
CND 303: Nutrition and diet counseling 
CO1 To understand the principles methods of diet counselling 
CO2 To apply the counselling methods to patients with different diseases 
CO3 To acquire skills in diet counselling and feeding of patients 
CO4 To gain knowledge in handling hospitalized patients 
CO5 To analyse the food habits and bring about the dietary changes in patients 
 
 
18SEMESTER – IV COURSE OUTCOME: 
CND 401: Nutrition in critical care and emergencies 
CO1 To gain knowledge in handling hospitalized patients 
CO2 To know the nutritional assessment of ill patients 
CO3 The students will be able know nutrition support systems during emergency 
CO4 To understand the physiology, metabolism and special nutritional 
requirements of the critically ill 
CO5 To be familiar with the special nutritional support techniques and feeding 
formulations to meet their nutritional needs 
 
CND 402: Clinical Nutrition & Diet therapy-II 
CO1 To understand the etiolo gy, physiology and metabolic anomalies of acute 
and chronic diseases and patient needs 
CO2 To learn the effect of the various diseases on nutritional status and nutrient 
and dietary requirements 
CO3 The students will be able to intervene the metabolic anomalies of acute and 
chronic diseases. 
CO4 The students will be able to plan menu for various diseases based on their 
nutritional status and dietary needs. 
CO5 To understand the risk factors for degenerative diseases and towards the 
management of several disease conditions 
 
CND 403: Drug and nutrient interaction & Toxicology 
CO1 To understand critical mechanism of drug nutrient interaction and toxicity 
in humans 
CO2 To develop critical appraisal related to clinical toxicology 
CO3 To grasp the role of addictive drugs in toxicology 
CO4 To describe typical poisoning of selected drugs 
CO5 To understand the impact of maternal-fetal toxicology 
 
 
19PROGRAM OUTCOME AND PROGRAM SPECIFIC OUTCOME   
PG DEPARTMENT OF FOOD SCIENCE  
 MVOC FOOD PROCESSING AND NUTRACEUTICALS 
Program outcome: 
PO 1   
 
This program will impart ability to apply principles of  food processing and Nutraceutical in the 
respective industry. 
PO2 This program will impart  training in industry -oriented skill s required for Food and Nutraceutical 
Industry   
PO3 This course helps students to become industry ready and gives life science students excellent 
opportunity to acquire skills and apply them in the 6 months industry internship which is a part of the 
curriculum there by enhances employability in food and nutraceutical sector  
PO4 This program nurtures the local talent and create an ecosystem of entrepreneurship in food and 
nutraceutical sector 
 
Program specific outcome: 
PSO 1 It is a general course emphasizing on technology and techniques involved in food processing & 
nutraceuticals, chemistry of food and nutraceuticals, food safety and standards. 
PSO 2 It also emphasis on food and allied industries, nutraceutical industry, safety, regulations, control and 
entrepreneurship in food and nutraceutical sector. 
PSO 3 It also deals with machineries, packaging, labelling and regulations and formulations and ready to eat 
technologies in food and nutraceuticals industry. 
PSO 4 It also deals with the basics of biochemical and microbiological techniques, fermentation , enzyme 
technology, nutrition and metabolism of macromolecules. 
PSO 5 It gives the learner the insight on biostatistics which is a requisite if students want to go for research. 
PSO 6 It emphasizes on soft skills required for a learner to improve their communication and soft skills. 
PSO 7 The course emphasizes on improving the practical skills on methodologies in food processing, 
techniques in food and nutraceuticals industry, methodologies in enzyme technology and 
fermentation, quality control and quality assurance, industrial practices in food and nutraceuticals and 
practices in biochemical and microbiological techniques.  
PSO 8 Practical application and theory for one and half year along with project work for product development 
at college and six months on job training in the industry will make the student industry ready.  
 
20COURSE OUTCOME 
MVOC FOOD PROCESSING AND NUTRACEUTICALS 
I SEMESTER 
FOOD PROCESSING AND NUTRACEUTICALS TECHNOLOGY 
CO 1 Students will be introduced to scope of food processing and nutraceutical industry – 
Indian scenario; opportunities and domains of food processing sectors; skills required in 
the different sectors: dairy, vegetable, fruits, beverages, spices processing sectors; 
government policies: FICSI. 
CO 2 Comparative analysis of food processing sector in India and Europe. 
CO 3 The students will understand the quantitative and qualitative analysis of food additives, 
effect of processing on the food, sensory evaluation and the different scales associated 
with it. 
CO 4 Students will be gaining knowledge in principles of food processing, food preser vation 
and nutraceutical processing.  It also deals with food and nutraceutical resources.  
 
CHEMISTRY OF FOOD AND NUTRACEUTICALS 
CO 1 The objective of this course is to teach the students about the chemistry of food and it’s 
related to its composition such as water and other macro and micro molecules. 
CO 2 It also teaches about chemistry of food additives. 
CO 3 They will be understanding the techniques of biochemistry like estimation of 
carbohydrates, proteins, lipids, food additives. 
CO 4 They will understand biochemical changes during processing and preservation, and 
chemistry of nutraceutical, they will also be able to do nutritive analysis by proximate 
analysis. 
 
BASIC TECHNIQUES OF FOOD PROCESSING AND NUTRACEUTICALS 
CO 1 The objective of this course is to teach the students about the extraction techniques 
involved 
CO 2 In extraction of active ingredients, chromatographic techniques used for purification, 
spectroscopic and electrophoretic methods involved in identification of active 
ingredients in food and nutraceutical industry. 
Co 3 It emphasizes on the different types and importance of food measurements in food 
industry. 
21 
FOOD SAFETY AND STANDARDS 
CO 1 This course deals with concept and meaning of food quality, food safety and food quality 
management. 
CO 2 Food safety laws and standards hazard analysis, safety evaluations and quality control in 
food and nutraceutical industry. 
CO 3 The students will know the how to be safe and secure at work place, keeping the work 
station clean, reporting and documentation in quality and will develop the interpersonal 
skills. 
CO 4 Students will be aware of food safety acts in India and in the world. 
 
BIOSTATISTICS 
CO 1 This course define the principal concepts about biostatistics. Recognize the definition of 
statistics, its subject and its relation with the other sciences. 
CO 2 Restate the principal concepts about biostatistics. Collect data relating to 
variable/variables which will be examined and calculate descr iptive statistics from these 
data. 
CO 3 Identify data relating to variable/variables. Identify convenient sample by using sampling 
theory. 
CO 4 Identify distribution form relating to the variable/variables. Recognize normal 
distribution. Interpret data via normal distribution. 
CO 5 Define the principal concepts of probability. Recognize the binomial distribution. 
Interpret data via binomial distribution. Apply hypothesis testing via some of the 
statistical distributions. 
CO 6 Define some concepts about  hypothesis testing. Apply hypothesis testing to the data 
through these concepts. Arrange the results of the hypothesis testing and make a statistical 
decision. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
22II SEMESTER 
FERMENTATION AND ENZYME TECHNOLOGY 
CO 1 Aim of the course is the knowledge of the fermentative processes used in the industrial 
production of primary and secondary metabolites, biomasses and recombinant proteins. 
CO 2 Bacteria, yeasts, moulds and mammalian cells are used in batch fermentation, fed batch 
fermentation, continuous culture, and continuous culture with cell/substrate recycle. 
CO 3 Kinetics of microbial growth and product formation in industrial fermentation processes 
will be described. 
CO 4 Distinguish the fundamentals of enzyme properties, nomenclatures, characteri stics and 
mechanisms. 
CO 5 It helps to understand and apply biochemical calculation for enzyme kinetics, compare 
methods for production, purification, characterization and immobilization of enzymes, 
discuss various application of enzymes that can benefit human life, discover the current 
and future trends of applying enzyme technology for the commercialization purpose of 
biotechnological products. Plot graphs based on kinetics data. 
 
NUTRITION AND METABOLISM 
CO 1 The students will be able to describe the structure of Macromolecules and identify the 
major class of macromolecules to which it belongs. 
CO 2 List the stages in the catabolism of food molecules and describe what occurs during each 
stage. 
CO 3 Describe the biochemistry process, basic concept of human nutrition and the relationship 
of the consumption of foods to nutritional status and health. 
CO 4 Evaluate the biological functions of foods for health in addition to nutritional values. 
CO 5 Evaluate the potential for adverse events related to die tary supplements. Apply their 
knowledge in food biochemistry and nutrition in designing new range of products with 
improved nutritional characteristic 
 
 
 
 
 
 
23III SEMESTER 
FOOD AND ALLIED INDUSTRIES 
CO 1 This course will help students to understand  General principles and technology of food 
processing, 
CO 2 It also deals with Agro-based products and it’s processing along with Poultry, meat and 
fish processing industry. 
CO 3 It imparts the knowledge in processing of Milk and dairy products. 
CO 4 The knowledge  of Processing in Beverage industry, Spices and spice oleoresins – 
Bakery, sugar and confectioneries products industry will be imparted. 
 
NUTRACEUTICALS INDUSTRY 
CO 1 On successful completion of this course students will be understanding the concepts 
related to Organizational elements, classification of nutraceutical, diet ary supplements, 
fortified foods, functional foods and phytonutracuticals. 
CO 2 Scope involved in the industry, Indian and global scenario 
CO 3 They will also know the practical skill of extraction phytochemicals along with 
quantitative and qualitative analysis 
 
BIOCHEMICAL AND MICROBIOLOGICAL TECHNIQUES 
CO 1 The student will understand the basic concepts and measurements of solution Separation 
and identification of active ingredients in food and Nutraceutical Industry by 
chromatography and electrophoretic techniques. 
CO 2 They will be well versed with analytical and advanced analytical techniques. 
CO 3 On successful completion of the course they will understand microbiological and 
staining techniques. 
 
SAFETY REGULATIONS, CONTROL AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP  
CO 1 From this course they will get the knowledge of Essentials of quality control, Quality 
Assurance. 
CO 2 The students will know the how to be safe and secure at work place, keeping the work 
station clean, Reporting and documentation in quality and will develop the Interpersonal 
Skills. 
CO 3 Students will be aware of food safety acts in India and in the world. 
24CO 4 Students will also understand the importance of labelling and its regulation. They will 
know about ethics and environmental concerns with respect to food and nutraceutical 
industry in processing as well as research. 
CO 5 They will understand biosafety levels, biosafety cabinets, biosafety guidelines. Students 
will also understand the environmental release of GMOs, carto gene protocol, the student 
will acquire knowledge required for starting a business.  
 
 
SOFT SKILLS 
CO 1 The student will Develop effective communication skills (spoken and written). 
CO 2 Develop effective presentation skills. 
CO 3 Conduct effective business correspondence and prepare business reports which produce 
results. 
 
 
COURSE OUTCOME 
MVOC FOOD TECHNOLOGY AND QUALITY MANAGEMENT 
 
25M. VOC FOOD TECHNOLOGY AND QUALITY MANAGEMENT 
COURSE OUTCOME 
I SEMESTER  
FOOD PROCESSING TECHNIQUES- I 
CO 1 Students learn the basic types of food processing. 
CO 2 Effect of processing on physical properties, sensory and nutritive value of 
foods and chemical changes in food. 
CO 3 They will understand the functional properties of food. 
CO 4 Students will learn basic and advanced techniques of food preservation. 
 
FOOD BIOCHEMISTRY 
CO 1 To acquaint various functional chemical constituents in food. 
CO 2 To build a relationship between the dynamic forces of food and the dynamic 
forces of digestion and growth. 
CO 3 To enable the students to Acquire knowledge on the macro and micro 
constituents of the food.  
CO 4 Know the structure and chemical characteristics of constituents of food. 
 
PRINCIPLES OF ANALYTIC CHEMISTRY 
CO 1 Students gain knowledge about different methods of investigation used in the 
analysis of foods. 
CO 2 And biochemical assay and about different instruments used in food analysis. 
CO 3 They will understand the principles and applications of different techniques 
used in food and nutrition research. 
 
BASICS OF FOOD MICROBIOLOGY 
CO 1 Enable the students to gain an insight into basic aspects of food 
microbiology.  
CO 2 Students will acquire knowledge and understanding of different food micro 
organisms 
CO 3 Different techniques used in its detection. 
CO 4 Students will understand causes of food spoilage by different foods and its 
type 
26RESEARCH METHODOLOGY 
CO 1 Students can understand the scientific approaches to research and to understand the 
significance of research methods in food. 
CO 2 They will learn and identify the sources of variability and uncertainty in research. 
CO 3 Students can understand the importance of scientific writing and develop competence 
in writing skills. 
CO 4 They will gain knowledge about drafting research proposal and publish scientific 
paper. 
 
SEMESTER II 
FOOD PROCESSING TECHNIQUES –II 
 
CO 1 Students learn the structure, composition and technology of cereals, pulses, oilseeds, 
fruits and vegetable and milk, sugar and animal foods processing. 
CO 2 They also learn about various pre-processing and processing techniques needed for 
food industry. 
 
 
FERMENTATION AND ENZYME TECHNOLOGY 
CO 1 After completion of the course, student acquire a detailed knowledge of number of 
products which are produced by industrial fermentation processes. 
CO 2 They will be able to explain the production of industrial products from 
microorganisms using fermentation. 
CO 3 They gain in depth knowledge about the enzymes in food industry and to comprehend 
the scale up and large-scale production. 
 
FOOD SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS 
 
CO 1 After completion of this course the student learn the Various elements and 
techniques of food safety. 
CO 2 The student will be able to comprehend the techniques like GMP, GHP, ISO, 
HACCP and HARPC. 
CO 3 The students will have thorough knowledge of basic elements of quality control 
and safety evaluation of foods and quality standards like AGMARK, CAC and 
FSSAI. 
 
27 
FOOD FORTIFICATION AND FOOD ADDITIVES 
 
CO 1 This course helps to understand basis of fortificants, selection. 
CO 2 Use of specific food vehicles, food laws for fortification, Technology of fortifying cereal 
products, beverages, candies, snack products. 
CO 3 Role of additives in processed foods, Sweetening agents, colouring agents and flavouring 
agents used in processed food industry. 
 
 
SEMESTER III 
 
FOOD AND ALLIED INDUSTRIES 
 
CO 1 At the end of the course the students will be able to know about the different 
principles and technology of food processing. 
CO 2 Followed in different industries like milk, beverage, Bakery and meat industry. 
 
 
FOOD QUALITY SYSTEM AND MANAGEMENT 
 
CO 1 At the end of the course the students will be able to, explain the application of food 
quality and food safety system. 
CO 2 Identify the hazard of the food chain to ensure food safety. 
CO 3 Examine the chemical and microbiological quality of food samples, Review of food 
quality and standards. 
PACKAGING, LABELING AND THEIR REGUALTIONS 
CO 1 After completion of this course students can learn about the basics of food packaging, 
different packaging materials, and packaging material suitable for different processing 
methods. 
CO 2 The students can gain knowledge in packaging laws and standards and applications of 
food packaging technology in food industry. 
 
 
 
 
28FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND SENSORY EVALUATION 
CO 1 This course presents to understand basis of Food and new Product Development. 
CO 2 Role of sensory evaluation in consumer product acceptance and types of sensory tests 
used in food product development. 
CO 3 Consumer behaviour in purchasing processed food and Packaging of new products. 
CO 4 Safety concerns related to new product development. 
 
SEMESTER IV 
 
INDUSTRY INTERNSHIP 
29MBH-201: MICROBIAL GENETICS  
CO1 Students acquired sound knowledge about Prokaryotic and Eukaryotic genome, genome size, 
karyotype, types of chromosomes were. 
CO2 Gene mutation, genetic recombination concepts were explained. 
CO3 Gene transfer mechanisms, bacterial transformation, cytoplasmic inheritance were well understood 
by students. 
CO4 Bacteriophages lysogenic and lytic cycles, R Plasmids were explained. 
 
MBH-202: MOLECULAR BIOLOGY 
CO1 Students attained knowledge about Molecular biology  Concepts, DNA damage and repair, DNA 
replication. 
CO2 Transcription, translation and gene expression regulators these concepts were well explained. 
CO3 Control of Gene expression at transcription and translation level were learnt by students 
 
MBH-203: ENVIRONMENTAL MICROBIOLOGY 
CO1 Students acquired knowledge on Aerobiology, principles of sedimentation, transmission of airborne 
diseases and the diagnosis of allergies. 
CO2 Fresh and marine ecosystems were  studied in detail. Knowledge on management of waste water 
treatment was attained by students. 
CO3 Concepts on Abiotic and biotic interactions of soil and microbes well explained. Biogeo chemical 
cycles were explained in detail. 
CO4 Obtained knowledge on Microbial transformations of Carbon, Sulphur, and Mercury. 
CO5 Mechanisms and adaptation of extremophiles were well understood by students. 
CO6 Role of microbes in degradation, Bioremediation of soil, air and water and their advantages were 
learnt by students. 
 
MBH-204: FOOD MICROBILOGY 
CO1 Students acquired knowledge on scope of food microbiology, extrinsic and intrinsic factors and their 
source 
CO2 Obtained knowledge on food spoilage, conventional and modern methods for detection of spoilage. 
CO3 Attained knowledge on food – borne infections and intoxication. 
CO4 Developed knowledge on principles and methods of food preservations. 
CO5 Attained knowledge on fermented foods. 
CO6 Food and sanitization methods were well explained to the students  
 
 
 
 
 
 
30MBH 301: MEDICAL MICROBIOLOGY 
CO1 
Comprehensive information and insights in medical microbiology, Normal microbial flora of 
human body and infection process routes of transmission of microbes in the body. Description and 
pathology of diseases. 
CO2 Will have a specific focus on Description and pathology of diseases. 
CO3 
Will also provide conceptual knowledge and significance of Laboratory diagnosis of Common 
infective syndromes and parasitic manifestations, Methods of transmission and role of vectors- 
biology of vectors genetically modified microbes. 
CO4 Obtain knowledge on Problems of drug resistance and drug sensitivity in bacteria. 
CO5 Acquire the knowledge of Viral diseases, Interferon and types of inducers. 
 
MBH 302: RECOMBINANT DNA TECHNOLOGY  
CO1 Major events in the development of rDNA technology. Introduction of rDNA into bacterial cells. 
Selection of transformants and recombinants – lac selection. 
CO2 Learning tools and techniques in rDNA technology- DNA manipulative enzymes. 
CO3 Acquire skills o n techniques of construction of recombinant DNA - Cloning vectors and isolation 
of gene of interest. 
CO4 Construction of genomic DNA library and cDNA library.Methods for selection of recombinants 
and analysis of cloned genes by sequencing methods. Express ion of recombinant protein in E. coli 
and eukaryotes. 
CO5 Identify problems associated with production of recombinant proteins and protein purification and 
devising strategies to overcome problem. 
CO6 Learning various application of rDNA technology in ev olving plants for resistance to pest and 
disease, tolerance to herbicides and abiotic factors. 
Learning techniques for production of pharmaceuticals, growth hormones, vaccines, gene therapy 
in expression system. 
 
MBH 303: IMMUNOLOGY 
CO1 To promote critical, provide with a foundation in immunological processes, knowledge on how the 
immune system works building on their previous knowledge from biochemistry, genetics, cell 
biology and microbiology. 
CO2 Be able to clearly state the role of the immune system, compare and contrast the innate versus 
adaptive immune systems . Be able to articulate the roles of innate recognition receptors (i.e. Toll -
Like Receptors) in immune response, be able to compare and contrast humoral versus cell -
mediated immune responses. 
CO3 Be able to distinguish various cell types involved in immune responses and associated functions, be 
able to distinguish and characterize CD4+ T helper cell lineages Th1, Th2, Th17, and regulatory T 
cell (Treg) 
CO4 Be able to distinguish and characteriz e antibody isotypes, development, and functions, understand 
the role of cytokines in immunity and immune cell activation and be able to identify and 
characterize cytokines of particular immune importance. 
CO5 Understand the significance the Major Histocom patibility Complex in terms of immune response 
and transplantation, be able to describe lymphocyte development and the expression of their 
receptors; and be able to provide an overview of the interaction between the immune system and 
pathogens. 
 
31MBH  401: AGRICULTURAL MICROBIOLOGY 
CO1 Students will learn about microbes and soil fertility, decomposition of organic matter by 
microorganisms, biological nitrogen fixation, genetic engineering, plant microbe interaction. 
CO2 Rhizosphere microorganisms, sideroph ores , VAM, bioinoculants, biofertilizers, biopesticides, 
molecular plant pathology, molecular mechanism of disease establishment. 
CO3 Plant diseases fungi, bacterial, mycoplasmal, viral, protozoa, viroids, parasitic plant diseases, post 
harvest diseases and control measures and integrated pest management in detail. 
CO4 The paper dealt on the microbes and their interaction with soil and inorganic molecules. The 
microbes involved in soil fertility, fixation of inorganic molecules into organic absorbable form. 
CO5 Bioinoculants involved as beneficial in nature. Molecular plant pathology and the plant diseases 
involved in the pathogenic cycle. 
 
MBH 402: INDUSTRIAL MICROBIOLOGY 
CO1 The paper concentrated on the microbes important in the industrial process. T he fermentation 
reactions and the Fermentors involved in the production.  
CO2 The scope of industrial microbiology, industrially important microorganisms and their preservation, 
strain improvement, maintenance and containment of recombinant organisms. 
CO3 Different types of Fermentors – Solid state fermentation. Down streaming process for the separation 
of the product. Batch culture, continuous culture growth kinetics, physical and chemical parameters 
required for microbial growth, cell number, direct and  indirect methods, Newtonian and Non -
Newtonian fluid, plastic fluids, viscosities and anti—foam agents. 
CO4 The study also dealt with Intellectual property rights and the Entrepreneurship. The patent, 
copyrights, trademarks, trade secret, geographical indications, Industrial designs. 
CO5 Patent laws, Patenting of living organisms, procedure involved in patenting, patent infringement, 
patent filing and international patent law, PCT, provisional and complete specification, patentable 
and non -patentable mate rials, product planning and development, Trade related aspects (TRIPS), 
WTO, WIPO, international & regional, concept and theories of entrepreneurship, Entrepreneurial 
traits and motivation, Nature and importance of entrepreneurs. 
CO6 Entrepreneurship in I ndia, barriers in entrepreneurship, agreements, Valuation & business concerns. 
Government regulations for microbial products. 
 
MBH 403: MICROBIAL BIOTECHNOLOGY 
CO1 The paper dealt with the microbial biotechnology and its production of industrial important  of 
products.  
CO2 Microbial products of commercial use, microbial enzymes, immobilization of cells and enzymes and 
their uses. 
CO3 Microbial transformation and organic synthesis of the medicinal products. The microbial products for 
commercial use ,indus trial production of organic acids, amino acids, solvents, antibiotics, microbial 
polysaccharides and polyesters 
CO4 The microbial products for commercial use ,industrial production ofhormones, anticholestrol 
compounds, vaccines, microbial insecticides, se condary metabolites, microbial enzymes, 
immobilized enzymes and cells 
CO5 Nanotechnology, Bioethics and biosafety involved in the regulation of GM products. 
 
 
32MSC BIOTECHNOLOGY 
BTH-101: CELL BIOLOGY 
CO1 Emphasizes on Basic Characteristics of the  Cell-Structure, organization and composition, Components 
of Blood and their functions, Extracellular matrix 
CO2 To Understand the Cytoskeletal structures and their functionality 
CO3 Helps acquire a comprehensive understanding of the Membrane transport in a cell 
CO4 Focus on cell signaling, Cell-cell interaction, cell adhesion and cell junction 
CO5 To study the Molecular events of cell division and cell cycle, regulation of cell cycle events - Cyclins, 
Cyclin dependent kinases, inhibitors. Apoptosis, necrosis. 
CO6 Understanding the structure and functionality of specialized cells-Muscle and nerve cells 
CO7 Knowing the Antioxidant defence system and Senescence 
 
BTH- 102: MOLECULAR GENETICS 
CO1 To learn the physical basis of heredity 
CO2 To Understand chromosomes and Genes (responsible for transmission of hereditary characters through 
generations), Karyotype analysis 
CO3 Understanding of Genetic recombination and recombination in bacteria 
CO4 Knowing the transposable genetic elements 
CO5 Focus on Mutation, Sex determination and dosage compensation 
CO6 To Study the Population genetics 
 
BTH-103: GENERAL MICROBIOLOGY 
CO1 To Study Microbial classification 
CO2 Understanding of Prokaryotic Microorganism- General properties, Structure, and Reproduction 
CO3 Focus on Eukaryotic Microorganisms- General characters, Structure and Reproduction 
CO4 To understand Viruses, Virioids and Prions (Acellular entities) 
CO5 Knowing the Microbial Growth and Control 
CO6 Learning of Microbiological methods 
 
BTH- 104: BIOCHEMISTRY 
CO1 Provides knowledge about Principles of Bioenergetics 
CO2 To understand Oxidative phosphorylation 
CO3 Knowing of Carbohydrates Classification, structure, properties, function and metabolism 
CO4 Focus on Amino acids and proteins 
CO5 Deep understanding of Lipids Classification, structure, properties, function and metabolism 
CO6 Covers Nucleic acids structure, properties and metabolism 
 
 
 
 
33BTS-105: BIOSTATISTICS (Soft core) 
 
BTH-201: BIOCHEMICAL TECHNIQUES AND ENZYMOLOGY  
CO1 Students get hands on experience of using Physical Techniques & Chromatographic Techniques. 
CO2 Students will learn principles and applications of PAGE and SDS PAGE agarose gel electrophoresis. 
CO3 Will understanding nomenclature, classification, chemical nature and properties of enzymes. Types of 
enzyme specificity. Strategies of purification of enzymes. Enzyme models. 
CO4 Students will learn in detail Enzyme Kinetics and Mechanism of Enzyme catalysis.  
CO5 To understand structure and mechanism of action of some important co-enzymes like NAD+, FAD, 
FMN, TPP, pyridoxal phosphate, lipoic acid, CoASH and vitamin B12. 
 
BTH-202: MOLECULAR BIOLOGY 
CO1 To understand the Structure and functions of different types of RNA. 
CO2 To rigorously study Biochemical evidences for DNA as genetic material. Watson and Crick model of 
DNA, different forms of DNA. 
CO3 Understand the mechanism of DNA replication and repair and Identify the significance of techniques 
used to study them. 
CO4 Students will learn to correlate the mechanism of prokaryotic and eukaryotic transcription process and 
appraise the different types of RNA processing methods. 
CO5 Students will understand to explore the mechanism of prokaryotic and eukaryotic translation and 
differentiate various types of gene expression regulation. 
 
BTH-203: IMMUNOLOGY AND IMMUNOTECHNOLOGY 
CO1 To develop the basic knowledge of Innate and acquired immunity, structure and functions of immune 
cells. 
CO2 Students will learn to applying the knowledge of immunology in development of immuno -
therapeutics and diagnostics. 
CO3 To comprehensively understand t he Structure and properties of antigens, antibodies. Generation of 
immunological diversity. Complement pathways and biological significance. 
CO1 Understand various application area of biostatistics 
CO2 Understand  different types of data and sampling techniques 
CO3 Students gain knowledge about Bio-statistics, basic concepts, data types, Properties of the data 
CO4 Understand Probability, Statistical Inference, Statistical package 
CO5 Identify appropriate tes ts to perform hypothesis testing and experimental design for biological 
experiment and interpret the output adequately. 
34CO4 Understand Serum separation and serological reactions (a) agglutination (b) precipitation. Enzyme 
linked immunosorbant assay. Isolation of lymphocytes from peripheral blood 
CO5 Understand the concept of structure and functions of MHC and HLA systems. Genetic control of 
immune response. Tissue transplantation. 
 
BTH-204: ENVIRONMENTAL BIOTECHNOLOGY 
CO1 Students will learn to assess the methods involved in isolation and screening of potential 
microorganisms for production of industrial bioproducts. 
CO2 Understand andanalyse the various metabolic pathways involved in biosynthesis of industrial products.  
CO3 Students will understand how to apply the metabolic pathway engineering principles in improvement 
of primary metabolites production. 
CO4 Understand to apply the principles of waste management to treat the effluents from bioprocess 
industries 
CO5 To learn how to choose and manage appropriate metabolic pathway mechanism for secondary 
metabolite production. 
 
BTS-205 BIOINFORMATICS 
CO1 To develop the basic knowledge Computer Network and Programming Languages. 
CO2 Students will learn to use bioinformatics tools and software to analyze DNA and protein sequence.  
CO3 Understand to appling the database management system concept in manage the biological data 
CO4 Get hands on experience of using online tools to analyze genome sequences. 
CO5 Students will be able to write computer programs in various programming techniques to analyze 
bioinformatics data. 
 
BTH 301 Plant and Agricultural Biotechnology 
CO1 Students will learn various aspects of Plant tissue culture 
CO2 To understand the plant transformation techniques 
CO3 Students will understand the applications of antisense RNA technology 
CO4  To understand the production of industrially important enzymes produced by plants 
CO5 To gain a detailed knowledge about GM crops 
 
 
 
 
35BTH 302 Animal Biotechnology 
CO1 To understand the basics of animal cell culture 
CO2 Students will learn the various gene transfer techniques used for production of transgenic animals 
CO3 Students will understand the both technical and ethical problems related to animal biotechnology 
CO4 Students will comprehensively learn the good manufacturing and laboratory practices while handling 
animals 
CO5 Students will learn about the detailed applications of animal biotechnology 
 
BTH303 Genetic engineering 
CO1 To comprehend various tools and techniques used in genetic engineering 
CO2 Students will learn scientific methodologies used in gene modification  
CO3 To understand applications of genetic engineering in biological research 
CO4 Students will get detailed knowledge of methods of gene transfer  
CO5 Students will comprehend different cloning strategies 
 
BTO 304 Applied Biotechnology 
CO1 Students will develop the strategic leadership and decision-making skills necessary in biotechnology 
CO2 To appraise the current regulatory, quality control, and legal frameworks that   impact biotechnology 
CO3 Students will learn professional and scientific communication appropriate for biotechnology 
CO4 Students will understand the basics and applications of biotechnology in different subjects 
CO5 Students will comprehend the different methodologies and their application in biotechnology 
 
BTP 305  Plant, Agricultural and Animal Biotechnology 
CO1 Students will gain practical knowledge of plant tissue culture 
CO2 Students will learn methods involved in plant genomic DNA isolation 
CO3 Students will analyse the cell cytotoxicity and cell viability assays using animal cell lines 
CO4 Students will understand the methods used for in vitro culture of animal cells 
CO5 Students will learn mushroom culture techniques 
 
 
 
 
36BTP306 Genetic Engineering and Bioinformatics 
CO1 Students will be able to perform basic genetic engineering experiments 
CO2 Students can gain technical knowledge of DNA isolation, gene identification etc 
CO3 Students will be able to perform different electrophoresis techniques in laboratory 
CO4 Students will comprehend the concept and be able to apply the methods at biotechnology industries 
CO5 Students will be able to perform and interpret the results of genetic engineering experiments 
 
BTH-401: BIOPROCESS ENGINEERING 
CO1 To comprehend the state of art of bioreactors, understand the need of bioreactors in various fields, 
learn the different product specific fermentation processes. 
CO2 Understand and analyse the problem of selection of suitable bioreactor configuration. 
Understand and specify reactors used in industrial bioprocesses. 
CO3 To understand and study the fermentation processes, kinetics and various parameters used to control 
the fermentation process. 
CO4 To assimilate the different biopr ocess techniques in downstream processing and to learn the 
production process of industrially important products. 
CO5 To learn the different regulations related to the production of different bioprocess products. 
Understand the IPRs related to products of  Biotechnology. Learn the requirements and needs for 
entrepreneurship.   
 
BTH-402 MEDICAL BIOTECHNOLOGY 
CO1 To understand the different modes of infection, symptoms, epidemiology and control of different 
microbial diseases in humans. To extensively study c ancer, its biology and latest breakthroughs in 
cancer therapy.  
CO2 To rigorously study human diseases, understand the biology and functions of different organs in the 
body. 
CO3 Understanding the need of nanobiotechnology, drug delivery techniques and mo lecular therapeutics 
for the designing of drugs. 
CO4 To analyse the drug development process, the requirements and approaches to find a potential drug. 
CO5 To comprehensively learn the various regulatory bodies in clinical research, understand the proces s 
of clinical trials and the ethical issues raised in clinical research.  
 
BTH-403 GENOMICS AND PROTEOMICS 
CO1 To develop the basic knowledge of omics and their application in research. 
CO2 Understand genome sequences, their organization and its structure . To understand the approaches in 
mapping and study the organisation of different genomes. 
CO3 To comprehensively understand the functions of genomes and to study comparative genomics. 
CO4 To analyse the needs of proteomics, various techniques and tools used in the study of proteomics. 
CO5 Understand the concept of metabolomics, methods of analysing metabolites and its regulation.  
 
 
 
37DEPARTMENT OF BIOCHEMISTRY 
MSc BIOCHEMISTRY SEMESTER – I 
COURSE OUTCOME (THEORY&RACTICAL) 
 
Biophysical and Bio – organic chemistry 
CO1 Discuss fundamentals of biomaterials with emphasis on classification, chemistry and characteristics 
CO2 Elaborate the methods of stereochemistry, and thermodynamics law 
CO3 Analyze the  mechanism of Bio-organic reactions 
CO4 Gain an understanding the basic elements and fundamentals of biochemistry 
CO5 Discuss fundamentals of biomaterials with emphasis on classification, chemistry and characteristics 
 
Biomolecules 
CO1 Easily understand the basic concepts/functions of solutes, chemical bonding and organic 
compounds. Describe the classification of biomolecules 
CO2 Describe the basic reaction types and mechanisms of bio molecules. Understand the structures and 
functions of biomolecules 
CO3 Analyse and study the chemical and biochemical properties of bio molecules   
CO4 Understand relationships between biological molecules and human health. Identify biomolecules 
structural differences and its properties 
CO5 Gain an understanding the basic principle of chemistry as well as biology. Understand the scope of 
biological chemistry Easily understand the interrelationship of organic compounds and homeostasis 
in biological organisms 
 
Analytical Biochemistry 
CO1 Demonstrate broad knowledge in modern analytical instrumentation with deep knowledge in its core 
concepts and its applications . Acquire knowledg e about the cell culture techniques, and Various 
extraction methods. 
CO2 Understand the principle, Instrumentation of different types of Light microscopy, electron 
microscopy Florescence microscope, fluorescence recovery after photo bleaching (FRAP), 
Fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET), and its applications in various fields of research. 
CO3 Acquire knowledge about the basics and latest developments in the instrumentation techniques of 
Centrifugation, flow cytometry, filtration, dialysis and their applications in various research fields. 
CO4 Demonstrate skill to explain about principle, BioCalorimetry and Radioactivity principles, 
measurement method and its biological applications. 
CO5 Study applications of statistical tools like Mean, Median, Mode, Standard deviation, Standard 
error,‘t’ test and ANOVA in biological research. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
38General Physiology 
CO1 Understand the inter relationships within and between anatomical and physiological systems of the 
human body 
CO2 Describe the structure of major human organs and explain their role in the maintenance of healthy 
individuals. Understand the role of Membranes and its transport mechanism 
CO3 Know in detail about the 4 levels of biological tissues. Describe the general function of each organ 
system. 
CO4 Explain how the activities of organs are integrated for maximum efficiency. Have in-depth 
understanding of anatomy and physiology of respiratory, digestive, and vascular system 
CO5 Have in-depth understanding of anatomy and physiology of muscle physiology 
 
Nutrition 
CO1 Acquire knowledge about the Basic nutrient elements like carbohydrate, Protein, Lipids, Macro, 
micro and trace elements. 
CO2 Understand the inter relationships within and between the nutrient element with macro and micro 
molecules. 
 
  (PRACTICAL PAPERS)  OUTCOME 
Gen. Biochemistry – I 
CO1 The students will learn to perform the calibration of buffer, Saponification, acid value, peroxide 
value, iodine number 
CO2 The students will learn to find out to isolate the components (casein, starch and glycogen) from the 
sample source. 
 
Gen. Biochemistry –II 
CO1 The students will learn to estimation of reducing sugars 
CO2 The students will learn to estimation of protein, inorganic phosphates 
CO3 The students will learn the method of Isolate different amino acids and nucleic acid.  
 
II-SEMESTER 
Enzymology 
CO1 Distinguish the fundamentals of enzyme properties, nomenclatures, characteristics and 
mechanisms. Apply biochemical calculation for enzyme kinetics. 
CO2 Discuss the factors affecting enzymatic reactions . Describe the concepts of co-operative behaviour, 
enzyme inhibition and allosteric regulation.  
CO3 Compare methods for production, purification, characterization and immobilization of enzymes. 
CO4 Describe the major applications of enzymes in industry, understand the principles of enzyme 
immobilisation techniques and enzyme extraction procedures. 
CO5 Discuss various application of enzymes that can benefit human life 
CO 6 Discover the current and future trends of applying enzyme technology for the commercialization 
purpose of biotechnological products. 
 
39Analytical Biochemistry II 
CO1 Demonstrate broad knowledge in modern analytical instrumentation with deep knowledge in its core 
concepts and its applications 
CO2 Acquire knowledge about the basics and latest developments in the techniques of Chromatography, 
Electrophoresis (IEF, 2D PAGE) and immuno Electrophorosis and their applications in various 
research fields 
CO3 Demonstrate skill to explain about principle, and applications of latest spectroscopy techniques like 
CD, LD, IR , NMR, ESR and Mass spectroscopy. 
CO4 Gain the knowledge in the current trends of proteonomic and Bioinformatics 
CO5 Learn about primary and secondary databases of nucleic acids and proteins(Swissport,  FASTA, 
Pubmed, Medline & NCBI) 
 
Metabolism – I 
CO1 Discuss the overall concept of cellular metabolism – anabolic and catabolic pathways, energy 
storage and release, production of building blocks for macromolecule synthesis 
CO2 Differentiate how various organs control metabolism. 
CO3 Explain glucose homeostasis (pathways and hormonal regulation). Discuss Krebs cycle, electron 
transport, and the pentose phosphate pathway 
CO4 Develop a basic understanding of biochemical events associated with structural arrangement of plant 
cell and organization. 
CO5 Explain and understand the biochemistry of photosynthetic process and mechanism of Nitrogen 
fixation 
 
Membrane Biochemistry 
CO1 Describe the origin of life, from the abiotic world to multicellular organisms, including an account of 
endosymbiosis 
CO2 Explain the structure, properties and functions of various classes of macromolecules in cells 
CO3 Describe the intricate relationship between various cellular organelles and their functions 
CO4 Enumerate the structure and functions of the plasma membrane 
CO5 Explain membrane physiology to include transport mechanisms, membrane potentials and action 
potentials 
 
Microbiology 
CO1 Demonstrate various classes and structure of microbes. Applications of microbes in food industry and 
pharma industry 
CO2 Discuss preparation and applications of products from industries. Role of microbes in nitrogen 
fixation, purification of water 
CO3 Learn and understand the basics of mycology and Production of mutants and their characterization 
CO4 Learn about Bacterial toxins, and mode of action of bacterial protein toxins. Host Microbe 
Interactions, Viruses of bacteria, plant and animal cells, Mycoplasma and viriods 
 
 
 
40(PRACTICAL PAPERS) COURSE OUTCOME 
Biochemical and Immunochemical Techniques 
CO1 Learn how to standardize various biomolecules 
CO2 Separate carbohydrates and amino acids by paper, TLC and columnchromatography 
CO3 Separatecompound  by electrophoresis 
CO4 Practically learn and understand the antigen-antibody interaction by Double Immunodiffusion 
method, Ouchterlony’s Method, Immunoelectrophoresis, Western Blotting and ELISA 
 
Enzymology 
CO1 Perform assay of clinically important enzyme: serum alkaline phosphatase, serum creatine 
phosphokinase and serum acid phosphatase, and the factors affecting enzyme activity and 
determination of Km. 
 
III-SEMESTER 
Molecular Biology-I 
CO1 Acquire knowledge  about nucleic acid as genetic information carriers, Possible modes of 
replication, and roles of helicase, primase, gyrase, topoisomerase, DNA Polymerase, DNA ligase, 
and Regulation of replication 
CO2 Understand the detailed mechanism and regulation of Eukaryotic DNA replication, along with 
Mitochondrial and hloroplastic DNA Replication 
CO3 learn about mechanism and regulation of transcription in prokaryotes along with Reverse 
transcription 
CO4 Understand the classes of DNA sequences, Genome-wide and Tandem repeats, Retroelements, 
Transposable elements, Centromeres, Telomeres, Satellite DNA, Minisatellites, Microsatellites; 
applications of satellite DNA and Split genes 
 
Molecular Physiology 
CO1 learn about structural organization of Cell, transport across cell membrane, exocytosis, receptor 
mediated endocytosis, protein trafficking in cells, Protein sorting, vesicular Transport and protein 
targeting 
CO2 learn about cell division: mitosis and meiosis; Cell cycle: check points, role of cyclin and cyclin 
dependent kinases in cell cycle regulation 
CO3 Learn about primary and secondary messenger and signalling pathway 
CO4 learn about Cancer - Causes, types,diagnosis, signaling pathways and its mechanism of action 
CO5 Learn about Plant hormones and its mechanism of action 
 
 
 
 
41Metabolism – II 
CO1 learn amino acid metabolism and its association with cellular energy production 
CO2 learn Lipid biosynthesis, Degradation of fatty acids and cholesterol, ketone bodies, acidosis, ketosis 
CO3 learn and understand about the Biosynthesis of purines and pyrimidine nucleotides, degradation of 
nucleotides, salvage pathways 
 
Plant physiology 
 
CO1 Understand the structure, biosynthesis and mechanism of action of major plant hormones, plant 
growth regulators, and photoreceptors in higher plants 
CO2 learn about the secondary plant metabolism, biosynthesi s and function of major secondary plant 
product classes like terpenoids, alkaloids and flavonoids etc. 
CO3 learn about nitrogen metabolism, mechanism of nitrate and nitrite reduction, and fixation of nitrogen 
CO4 Gain knowledge electron transport in higher plants and its relation with the carbon fixation 
pathways, Light regulation of photosynthetic enzymes, Calvin cycle, CAM, C4 pathways, and 
photorespiration 
 
Cyber space- Open Elective 
 
CO1 Learn basic components of information technology 
CO2 Understand the interface of the components, roles and their difference 
CO3 Study the back end of the system in database security issues 
CO4 Grasp the knowledge in networking components with its architecture and protocols 
CO5 Know the standards for security in the cloud environment 
 
(PRACTICAL PAPERS) COURSE OUTCOME 
Clinical Biochemistry 
CO1 Gain knowledge of biological samples and their collection procedures 
CO2 Perform biochemical laboratory analysis in blood and urine samples and interpret the generated 
results after analysis in order to determine the likely diagnosis 
CO3 Assess presence and absence of normal and abnormal constituents in urine by performing qualitative 
urine analysis 
CO4 Determine activity of enzymes such as  creatine kinase, LDH, SGOT and SGPT 
CO5 Determine blood urea, uric acid and creatinine which acts as renal indices 
CO6 Analyze serum for Glucose,cholesterol, Bilirubin and A/G ratio 
 
Molecular Biology 
 
CO1 Understand the basic principle involved in isolation of biomolecules from various biological sources 
CO2 Isolate DNA from various sources – viz plant, microbes and animals  
CO3 Purify DNA, RNA, Separate DNA, RNA, Separating Proteins by SDS PAGE 
CO4 Understanding the mobility differences of macromolecules in electrophoresis 
CO5 Able to handle RT- PCR 
 
 
42 
IV-SEMESTER 
Molecular Biology-II 
CO1 Understand the synthesis of DNA and Post replication processes 
CO2 Understand the synthesis of RNA and post transcriptional modifications 
CO3 Understand the synthesis of protein and its post translational modification 
CO4 Describe the molecular mechanisms behind DNA damage and repair 
CO5 Describe and compare different molecular mechanisms to bring about cell death and explain how 
this is linked to DNA damage 
CO6 Explain how molecular defects in a cell can lead to its development into a cancer cell 
 
Biochemical Genetics 
CO1 learn and understand the Genome organization, Cytogenetics, Genetic Control of Development 
CO2 Understand the basics of heredity population genetics and master fundamental genetic calculation 
CO3 learn and understand the Principles of Mendelian inheritance, Linkage and genetic mapping; 
Extrachromosomal inheritance, Sexlinked inheritance and genetic disorders, Somatic cell genetics, 
Population genetics 
CO4 learn and understand the Human Genome Project, Gene therapy, Genetic Testing, and Genetic 
Counseling 
Biotechnology 
CO1 Explain the general principles of generating transgenic plants, animals and microbes 
CO2 learn about the basic concept of Plant Biotechnology and applications in agriculture like micro -
propagation, haploid plants, embryo culture, hybrids, cybrids etc 
CO3 Understand the role of vectors, plasmids in gene technology 
CO4 Understand the gene transfer methods 
CO5 Understand the DNA sequencing methods 
 
Immunology and Toxicology 
CO1 Learn the classification of immunity, cell mediated immune response, humoral immune response 
CO2 Gain the knowledge of  structure, types of antigens and antibodies 
CO3 Elaborate the method of monoclonal antibodies synthesize and various theories adopted for 
production of antibody. 
CO4 Learn about the  different types of vaccines synthesized and applications 
CO5 Explore knowledge on autoimmune disorder, hypersensitivity and its types 
CO6 Understand the basic concepts of pharmacy - ED50, LD 50 and drug metabolism 
43 
(PRACTICAL PAPERS) COURSE OUTCOME 
Genetic Engineering and Protein Chemistry 
CO1 practically learn to isolate plasmid DNA and genomic DNA from E. coli and will learn to perform 
Agarose gel electrophoresis of DNA 
CO2 learn Restriction digestion of DNA and its application in cloning and to perform PCR 
CO3 learn and understand the  Blotting technique 
CO4 Learn Enzyme isolation, purification and determination of its activity 
 
 
Project Work 
CO1 To develop synopsis of a defined research problem 
CO2 To conduct the bench work 
CO3 To prepare the research report and its oral demonstrations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
44PG DEPARTMENT – MBA 
Program outcome  
PO1 To equip the students with required tools and techniques for improving their decision making skills and 
inventive thinking. 
PO2 
Students will gain the skills required to navigate through the complexities of managing data, to identify 
financial challenges, innovation ideas, addressing the challenges of organizational management and aware 
of alternative to jobs. 
PO3 Students of the management program are trained for changing environment in a social and global context 
and practical approach to problem solving and function effectively as skilled managers. 
PO4 Students get prepared to work in multicultural and multidisciplinary teams for effective problem solving 
and understand the principles of group dynamics, team work and growth of management profession. 
 
Program specific outcome 
PO1 To develop and apply fundamental  management skills through practical knowledge  for supporting  
business and management decisions through multidisciplinary techniques 
PO2 To develop and nourish leadership skills, team building and team player qualities to accomplish 
organizational goals 
PO3 Cultivating and promoting entrepreneurial skills with ethics, social and environmental commitment for 
sustainable business practices in micro and macro business atmosphere. 
 
 
COURSE OUTCOME - I MBA 
Economics for managers 
CO1 Introduction to managerial economics and various economic theories and principles 
CO2 Understanding of demand analysis and consumer behavior 
CO3 Insight to theory of production and analysis of cost 
CO4 Determination of price and output 
CO5 Factor market and factor pricing 
CO6 Macroeconomic analysis and policy 
 
Organizational behavior 
CO1 Introduction to organization behavior meaning, benefits and ob. as an inter-disciplinary subject 
CO2 Learning about personality, learning process, attitude and values 
CO3 Understanding motivation, theories of motivation, team building & group dynamics, leadership theories 
CO4 Study of conflict and its types 
CO5 Study of culture,  discipline and organizational effectiveness 
CO6 Study of change and organizational development 
 
45Accounting for managers 
CO1 Conceptual basis for accounts, fraud and ethical issues in accounting 
CO2 Orientation to financial statements, accounting concepts and conventional and gap 
CO3 Measuring and reporting assets, liabilities and equity 
CO4 Analyzing and interpreting financial statements 
CO5 Orientation to cost accounting 
CO6 Insight to contemporary issues in accounting 
 
Statistics for management 
CO1 Role and applications of statistics in managerial decision 
CO2 Time series analysis, concept, additive and multiplicative models 
CO3 Concept of probability and its uses in business decision - making 
CO4 Introduction to sampling distributions, sampling distribution of mean and proportion 
CO5 Estimation theory and hypothesis testing 
CO6 Chi-square test for single sample  standard deviation and decision theory 
 
Marketing for customer value 
CO1 Essentials of marketing, importance and core marketing concepts 
CO2 Creating/choosing customer value, satisfaction and loyalty 
CO3 Designing customer value through products and pricing strategies 
CO4 Delivering customer value, market logistics, supply chain management 
CO5 Communicating customer value through mass communication and digital platform 
CO6 Sustaining growth and customer value, managing holistic marketing organization 
 
Business and industry 
CO1 An overview of Indian economy, performance and recent trends 
CO2 Study of essentials of business & industry 
CO3 
Evolution of business & industry in India from British raj, swadeshi movement, post-independence, 
license raj and lpg era 
CO4 Structure and status of business & industry in India 
CO5 Growth of business & industry 
CO6 Interface with voluntary organizations 
 
 
 
 
46Communication skills 
CO1 Communication in business and its forms 
CO2 Oral communication skills through telephonic, video and Skype, group discussion 
CO3 Written communication skills through commercial letters, e-mail messages, job applications & resume 
writing 
CO4 Listening skills, active and empathic listening, listening and judgment 
CO5 Interpersonal communication skills, conditions of negotiating, types and sources of conflicts 
 
COURSE OUTCOME - II MBA 
Technology for management 
CO1 Study on introduction of a computer system, overview and types network topologies, computer security 
CO2 Insight to conceptual and detailed designs of MIS 
CO3 Information system analysis, design, system testing, hard ware, software and documentation & its tools 
CO4 Information on system implementation strategies and process 
CO5 Working of e-commerce and ERP systems 
CO6 Introduction to OS and office software and internet protocol 
 
Managerial research methods 
CO1 Introduction to learning of management research, types, purpose and process 
CO2 Identification of research problem, research hypothesis and research design 
CO3 Data collection and measurement concepts like questionnaire design, pilot test , primary & secondary data 
CO4 Understanding the concept of sample data preparation 
CO5 Data analysis and procedure for testing of hypothesis 
CO6 Research report writing, types and structure 
 
Entrepreneurship and ethics 
CO1 Study of entrepreneurship in the new millennium and entrepreneurship role in economic development 
CO2 Opportunity assessment , sources of finance for new venture and reasons for venture failure 
CO3 Learning of feasibility analysis and crafting business plan 
CO4 Introduction to legal forms of entrepreneurial organizations, legal environment 
CO5 Introduction , perspective of social entrepreneurship with few experiments 
CO6 Insight to  business ethics, CSR, environmental awareness and ethical leadership by entrepreneurs 
 
 
 
 
 
47Human capital management 
CO1 To enlighten the students on the principles and practices of  HR as a capital factor 
CO2 Insight on human capital planning and employee hiring 
CO3 Study on HR development & contemporary HRD practices 
CO4 Introduction to performance management system and appraisals 
CO5 Compensation management and employee relations, trade union and their relevance 
CO6 Study of strategic HRM and business performance 
 
Financial management 
CO1 To provide the concepts and foundations of managing finance in business enterprises 
CO2 Equipping students with time value of money concepts 
CO3 Long term financing decisions, leverages types and measurement 
CO4 Long term investment decisions and its methods 
CO5 Insight to short term financing and investment decisions 
CO6 Study of dividend decisions and its types 
 
Quantitative techniques and operation research 
CO1 To impart knowledge in concepts and tools of or and QT 
CO2 Study of importance of transportation, terminologies, methods like NWCM, LCM & VAM to find 
feasible solution 
CO3 Insight to assignment, importance of its problems, sequencing - terminologies and notations 
CO4 Understanding the network analysis of pert and CPM techniques 
CO5 Theory of games and description of queuing models 
CO6 Exposure to simulation models like monte carlo using random numbers and replacement models 
 
Innovation management 
CO1 To impart skills of innovation and enable students to think and act on innovation 
CO2 Application of innovation and its techniques 
CO3 Marketing of innovation products and strategic considerations on innovations 
CO4 Understanding of evaluation of innovation and its legal aspects 
CO5 Insight about innovation in reality and innovation for problem solving 
 
48COURSE OUTCOME 
Master of Commerce 
I SEMESTER 
MONETARY SYSTEMS 
CO 1 Understanding monetary system of an economy intended to provide knowledge on: Various 
financial institutions- financial and capital markets , Money- volume of supply-significance, 
Methods of note issue ,Theories of money 
CO 2 The learner obtains knowledge on how money supply cause inflation or impact of money supply on 
price level and acquires knowledge on factor pricing, control on volume of money supply, 
understanding role of financial institutions in business credit. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT 
CO 1 Apply the basic concepts, models, approaches and theories of international business in today’s 
global environment.  
CO 2 Measure significant pros and cons of globalization and roles of MNCs in the global business 
environment. 
CO 3 Identify forms of financing and their implications in foreign trade. 
CO 4 Assess the functional areas of business organization in international business environment. 
CO 5 Determine the functional structure of the international bodies in facilitating economic integration 
and EXIM trade 
 
PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICES OF BUSINESS DECISIONS 
CO 1 To comprehend the basic characteristics of economic development and economic growth. 
CO 2 Understand the sources of public finance, Attain the advantages and knowledge of public 
investments and other government expenditures, Understand the needs of public borrowing 
CO 3 Understand supply and demand and the basic forces that determine equilibrium in a market 
economy 
CO 4 Understand the concept of Production and Production Function, he meaning of Factors of 
Production, Short Run and Long Run 
CO 5 Understand the framework that supports a set of pricing strategies 
 
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY FOR BUSINESS 
CO 1 Explain the fundamental framework of information system and its application in organizations.  
CO 2 Apply information system solutions in business operations. 3. Compile hardware software and 
network service of an enterprises. 
CO 3 Develop database concepts and database management system software. 
CO 4 Create business applications of data mining and warehousing to the decision-support level of 
organizations. 
49 
 
 
MANAGERIAL FINANCE 
CO 1 Demonstrate the functions of finance and capital structure theories.  
CO 2 Assess the concept of risk in capital budgeting decisions. 
CO 3 Evaluate the dividend policy for corporate dividend decision. 
CO 4 Design corporate restructuring under merger and acquisition. 
 
GLOBAL TALENT MANAGEMENT 
CO 1 Develop an understanding of the concept of human resource management and its relevance in 
organizations.  
CO 2 Relate the principles and practices to staffing, job analysis, training, recruitment and selection, 
performance appraisal, compensation, and compliance with human resource requirements. 
CO 3 Elaborate the areas of concern in employee welfare, health, safety, and industrial relations. 
CO 4 Discuss the need for HR evaluation and ethical issues in HRM functions. 
CO 5 Explain broad range of issues and challenges faced by MNCs in their IHRM activities. 
 
CORPORATE COMMUNICATION SKILLS 
CO 1 Recall communication theories and assess their relationship to Corporate Communication 
practices. Measure the value and efficacy of interpersonal communication skills in various 
business operations. 
CO 2 Analyse the importance of communication functions including media, community, employee, 
government, customer and investor relations. 
CO 3 Utilize applications of Social Media platforms in business communications. 
CO 4 Assess the relevance of listening skills in effective communication.  
CO 5 Measure the value and efficacy of interpersonal communication skills in various business 
operations 
 
  
50II SEMESTER 
MODERN INDIAN BANKING 
CO 1 To familiarize the students about the role of monetary and credit policy  
CO 2 To make them well acquainted with IRAC norms and securitization act 
CO 3 To understand BASEL II and III norms 
CO 4 To learn about innovations in the new era. To make them understand about prudential norms, the 
different banking institutions 
 
RISK MANAGEMENT AND DERIVATIVES 
CO 1 Understand the concept of various derivative products such as futures, options, and swaps 
CO 2 To apply hedging models in assessing price risk of derivatives 
CO 3 To analyse and estimate value at risk for various derivatives 
CO 4 To comprehend various derivative products and their performance in Indian and Global Markets 
 
ADVANCED RESEARCH METHODOLOGY 
CO 1 Apply the basic concepts, principles and techniques of scientific methodology in business research.  
CO 2 Formulate research schema for business research and identify the application of measurement and 
scaling techniques in business research. 
CO 3 Build analytical skills to apply various statistical tools for testing, analysing and interpreting the 
survey data 
CO 4 Select appropriate parametric and non-parametric tests for testing the research hypotheses and 
analysing the sample data. 
CO 5 Compile the art of drafting and writing the research report. 
 
DIGITAL MARKETING 
CO 1 Explain emerging trends in digital marketing and critically assess the use of digital marketing tools 
by applying relevant marketing theories and frameworks 
CO 2 Articulate the value of integrated marketing campaigns across SEO, Paid Search, Social, Mobile, 
Email, Display Media, Marketing Analytics 
CO 3 Recognize Key Performance Indicators tied to any digital marketing program. 
 
EMERGING TRENDS IN ENTREPRENEURSHIP 
CO 1 Discover the dynamics of the entrepreneurial world and the role of government in encouraging 
entrepreneurships  
CO 2 Identify and discuss the potential of small scale industries in the development of the economy  
CO 3 Analyse the business environment in order to identify business opportunities 
CO 4 Design viable business plan considering the various aspects of feasibility and discuss common 
pitfalls 
51 
 
 
INDIAN ETHOS AND LEADERSHIP  
CO 1 Understand the Indian ethos and its application in managerial practices 
CO 2 Understand the importance of work ethos, values and its impact on stake holders 
CO 3 Concept and Significance of leadership and communication skills in business 
CO 4 Understand stress management techniques and its importance 
 
 
ARTIFICIAL AND BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE 
CO 1 Understand Artificial Intelligence based applications to enhance business process. 
CO 2 Understand and describe the fundamentals of business intelligence  
CO 3 Implement the process of business intelligence to make better business decisions 
 
  
52III SEMESTER 
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS 
CO 1 Identify different types of Intellectual Properties (IPs), the right of ownership, scope of protection as 
well as the ways to create and to extract value from IP 
CO 2 Recognize the crucial role of IP in organizations of different industrial sectors for the purposes of 
product and technology development. 
CO 3 Identify activities and constitute IP infringements and the remedies available to the IP owner and 
describe the precautious steps to be taken to prevent infringement of proprietary rights in products and 
technology development. 
 
LOGISTICS AND SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT 
CO 1 Acquire the basic knowledge of logistics and supply chain management.  
CO 2 Interpret the various technologies used in logistics and supply chain management. 
CO 3 Explain the sectors associated with logistics and supply chain management. 
CO 4 Interpret the procurement and different structure of procurement 
 
CORPORATE REPORTING AND PRACTICES 
CO 1 Apply the international accounting standards and Indian accounting standards in the preparation of 
financial statements of a company.  
CO 2 Illustrate the new accounting standards and treatment for reporting the financial performance of 
business combinations. 
CO 3 Compile the consolidated financial statements and income statements of a group and its subsidiaries. 
CO 4 Discuss the new accounting treatment for industry based standards. 
 
STRATEGIC COST MANAGEMENT 
CO 1 Familiarize with the various pricing strategies in decision making. Explain the role of total quality 
management in improving the organisational performance.  
CO 2 Describe some of the techniques and process of transfer pricing which are available to assist 
managers in taking decisions. 
CO 3 Understand and application of the concept of learning curve 
CO 4 Provide knowledge about balanced score card and bench marking. 
 
CORPORATE TAX PLANNING 
CO 1 To provide understanding of Direct Taxes including rules pertaining there to and their application to 
different business situations. 
CO 2 Understand the procedure of assessment of company 
CO 3 Tax planning and management in respect to amalgamation, mergers, and understand the concept of tax 
avoidance, evasion and double taxation, tax haven 
CO 4 Corporate restructuring, issue of bonus shares, leasing, replacement and transfer pricing 
CO 5 Exposure to tax payments through eTDS, eFilling of Tax returns and assessment, insight to CBDT 
settlement commission, refunds and revisions 
 
53IV SEMESTER 
BUSINESS ANALYTICS 
CO 1 Analyse the business data through various statistical techniques  
CO 2 Communicate mathematical ideas effectively both in oral and written form 
CO 3 Use a variety of visual models for representing the results of analysis 
CO 4 Apply basic business analytics techniques to business problems 
 
FORENSIC ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING 
CO 1 Examine the knowledge and skills required to perform forensic accounting 
services 
CO 2 Evaluate issues relating to professional ethics and responsibilities in forensic 
accounting. 
CO 3 Integrate knowledge of relevant legal principles, rules, and processes with 
forensic accounting practice 
CO 4 Assess types of fraud activity and methods of fraud prevention, detection, and 
response, including bankruptcy fraud. 
CO 5 Evaluate techniques used to prevent and detect fraudulent financial reporting. 
 
CORPORATE REPORTING PRACTICES- II 
CO 1 To familiarise the students International financial reporting standards  
CO 2 To study types of mergers, methods of accounting, Accounting for investment 
subsidiary 
CO 3 To learn group financial statements/consolidated financial statement 
CO 4 To study accounting for industry based standards 
 
STRATEGIC COST MANAGEMENT –II 
CO 1 Evaluate the contexts in which management accounting operates within an 
organization and its link to the external environment.  
CO 2 Compile management accounting techniques to draw reasoned conclusions. 
CO 3 Summarize the different costs and pricing strategies for decision making 
purposes. 
CO 4 Compute total cost using activity based costing and compare it with traditional 
costing method 
 
CUSTOMS DUTY AND GST 
CO 1 Apply GST rules in taking managerial decisions in tax related matters..  
CO 2 Assess GST using the concepts of time, place, and value of supply. 
CO 3 Estimate input tax credit by using different provisions of the act. 
CO 4 Outline the provisions concerned with payment of tax, interest, TDS, Refund 
and Returns 
CO 5 Appraise the offenses and penalty governed by GST Law of India 
 
5455565758596061626364656667