

Apply Now 2026 Admissions 2026-27 Admission for PG/UG/Diploma Courses For Apply Online: https://admissions.pims.org.in/ Call 96321 71973 Contact 78994 08181 WhatsApp Click Here to pay
        Online Examination Fee
        payment Home About us academic preferred courses Browse Close All Bangalore University Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Science (RGUHS) UG Courses PG Courses Diploma Courses Job Oriented/Vocational Programs All Courses UG Courses Padmashree institutions have a variety of undergraduate courses that students can choose from based on their interests and passions. PG Courses Discover an array of specialized PG courses tailored to enhance your expertise and propel your career to new heights. Diploma Courses Diploma courses are shorter programs that assist students in specializing in a specific skill and entering the workforce quickly. After 10th, 12th, graduation, or post-graduation, they have the option of being pursued. Job Oriented/Vocational Programs Padmashree is offering various skill upgrading and job-oriented courses under DDU Kaushal Kendra recognized by UGC, New Delhi B.Voc Food Processing and Nutraceuticals PIMS - Padmashree Institute of Management & Sciences offering Food Processing and Nutraceuticals Course.  Best Food Processing college in Bangalore. Get Admission Now! View B.Sc. Food Technology (Bachelor of Science) Students learn about food science, technology, and the processes involved in food production, processing, and preservation through a three-year undergraduate program known as a  Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) in Food Technology. View B.Sc. Clinical Nutrition & Dietetics B.Sc. in Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics is a three-year undergraduate degree program that teaches students how to use their knowledge of food, people, science, and medicine to prevent and treat diseases. View B.Sc. Food Science & Nutrition 3 Year UG degree Course. Get Admission now. B.Sc. Food Science & Nutrition (Bachelor of Science)  is a 3 Year Under Graduate course. The main focus is on the interface between Human Nutrition and Food Science, and the integration of these two disciplines. Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences. View B.Sc.  Biotechnology Course | Get Admission in Best UG Course in Bangalore B.Sc. Biotechnology is a 3 Year Undergraduate Course that emphasizes the intersection of biology and technology. Find the scope of Biotechnology. View B.Sc. Psychology The Bachelor of Science in Psychology (BSc Psychology) is a three-year undergraduate degree that examines the human mind, emotions, and behavior. In addition, it addresses mental illness and crisis management. View BSc Environmental Science BSc in Environmental Science is a 3 Year undergraduate program that teaches students about the environment, its processes, and how to handle environmental challenges View B.Sc. (Bachelor of Science) Microbiology B.Sc. Microbiology is a Bachelor of Science in Microbiology is a three-year undergraduate program that studies the biology of viruses, protozoa, fungi, and bacteria. View B.Sc. Genetics Course Bachelor of Science in Genetics (B.Sc. Genetics) is an undergraduate program focused on biological variations, living body mechanisms, heredity, and how genes are passed down. Such as Biochemistry, Molecular Biology, Microbiology, Zoology View B.Sc. Biochemistry B.Sc Biochemistry (Bachelor of Science)   is a 3-year undergraduate course that studies chemical and physiological processes. This branch of science applies chemistry to the study of living organisms and their atoms and molecules. View BCA - Bachelor of Computer Application View MSc Biotechnology PG Degree Program MSc Biotechnology is a post graduate degree program that focuses on the application of biology in science, medicine, and technology. This course prepare students for careers in research, healthcare and other industries. View M.Sc Biochemistry MSc in Biochemistry. It is indeed a two-year full-time postgraduate degree program that provides students with advanced knowledge and skills in the field of biochemistry. The program covers a wide range of topics, including molecular biology, enzymology etc. View M.Sc Microbiology MSc program in Microbiology. The program includes required and elective courses, and students can also opt for graduate certificates in Environmental Microbiology, Microbiome and Health, Medical Microbiology, Agricultural Microbiology View M.Sc. Applied Genetics View M.Sc. Food Technology Course | PG Degree Course An MSc in Food Technology is a postgraduate program that focuses on the scientific principles behind food production, processing, preservation, packaging and distribution. The curriculum is a blend of including food chemistry, microbiology and nutrition biotechnology. View M.Voc Food Processing and Nutraceuticals View M.Voc Food Technology and Quality Management View M.Sc. Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics View M.Sc. Food and Nutrition View B.Voc Food Processing and Nutraceuticals PIMS - Padmashree Institute of Management & Sciences offering Food Processing and Nutraceuticals Course.  Best Food Processing college in Bangalore. Get Admission Now! View M.Voc Food Processing and Nutraceuticals View M.Voc Food Technology and Quality Management View Plant Tissue Culture View Plant Genetic Transformation View Phytochemical Techniques View Chromatographic Techniques View Quality control and Quality Assurance View Post Graduate Diploma in Food processing and Nutraceuticals View Diploma in Food processing and Nutraceuticals View Advanced Diploma in Food processing and Nutraceuticals PIMS has joined the Skill India mission by offering the Advanced Diploma in Food Processing and Nutraceuticals B.VOC., M.VOC. View PG Diploma in Food Processing and Nutraceuticals (BiSEP) Under BiSEP, PIMS offers PG Diploma in Food Processing and Nutraceuticals. View B.Voc Food Technology and Quality Management B.Voc Food Technology and Quality Management View B.Com. (Bachelor of Commerce) UG Degree Course B.Com is a three-year undergraduate degree that gives students a foundation in business and commerce principles. The course covers a variety of topics, including accounting, economics, business management, and taxation. View BBA Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences includes personality development workshops as a mandatory practice for all the students which trains and grooms the students and makes them ready to enter into the corporate world. View Master of Business Administration A sub-type of the full-time MBA program that is designed for upper management over a period of one or two years. View M.Com. (Master of Commerce) Master Degree Course | Padmashree Bangalore M.Com. (Masters of Commerce) is a postgraduate master's degree focusing on commerce, accounting, business administration, management and economics related subjects. This Masters degree course ideal for candidates who wish to make a career in banking financial services. View BPT - Bachelors in Physiotherapy To ensure students are well-prepared to navigate the real world of physical healthcare, this program has been meticulously crafted to combine theoretical learning with practical experience. View B.Sc. Medical Laboratory Technology (MLT) B.Sc. MLT is a comprehensive program designed to equip students with the theoretical knowledge and practical skills required to excel in the medical laboratory field. It emphasizes diagnostic techniques, laboratory procedures, and the use of cutting-edge technology. View M.Sc. in Medical Laboratory Technology (MLT) M.Sc. in Medical Laboratory Technology PG course is designed to provide in-depth theoretical knowledge and hands-on training in various diagnostic techniques, laboratory management, and cutting-edge medical research. Padmashree Institute of Health Sciences Bangalore View Bachelor of Hospital Administration (BHA) The Bachelor of Hospital Administration (BHA) at Padmashree Institute of Hospital Administration is a highly sought-after undergraduate program designed to develop future leaders in healthcare management. Affiliated with RGUHS & approved by the Govt. of Karnataka View Master of Hospital Administration (MHA) Master of Hospital Administration (MHA) at Padmashree Institute of Hospital Administration is a prestigious postgraduate program aimed at nurturing leaders & managers for the ever-growing healthcare industry. Affiliated with RGUHS & approved by the Govt. of Karnataka View Bachelor of Public Health (BPH) Bachelor of Public Health (BPH) is Undergraduate degree program at Padmashree Institute of Public Health, affiliated with RGUHS and approved by the Govt of Karnataka. View B.Sc. Nursing  (Bachelor of Science in Nursing) BSc Nursing (Bachelor of Science in Nursing) is a 4 year undergraduate degree program that prepares students to work as registered nurses in various health sectors. The program covers including psychology,  pharmacology, physiology, nutrition, anatomy and microbiology. View Master of Public Health (MPH) Master of Public Health is a PG Degree program at Padmashree Institute of Public Health, affiliated to RGUHS & approved by the Govt. of Karnataka, is a multidisciplinary postgraduate degree designed to prepare professionals to address global health challenges. View Master of Physiotherapy (MPT) View Masters in Clinical Research MSc in Clinical Research is a postgraduate program focused on the scientific, ethical & operational aspects of conducting clinical trials & research. This program provides individuals with the knowledge and skills to manage & contribute to the drug development process View Master Of Computer Applications (MCA) MCA (Master of Computer Applications) degrees offer a variety of career paths in the rapidly evolving IT and software development sectors View NAAC - IQAC Faculty Profile Research Nutraceutical Virtual museum ACIC-PIMS Events B.Voc. Food Processing and Nutraceuticals What is Food Processing?
Food processing is the branch of Food Science, where a set of techniques and methods are used to change the raw ingredients into prepared food. It is a procedure in which food is prepared for consumption purposes by humans and animals. Read
                                article Featured B.Voc. Food Technology and Quality Management Food technology is the application of food science to the selection, preservation, processing, packaging, distribution, and use of safe food. Related fields include analytical chemistry, biotechnology, engineering, nutrition, quality control, and food safety management. Read article B.Sc. Food Technology B.Sc. Food Technology is an undergraduate degree program that focuses on the scientific principles behind food processing, preservation, and packaging Read article BCA - Computer Science Computer science is the study of computers and computing, including their theoretical and algorithmic foundations, hardware and software, and their uses for processing information. Read article B.Sc. Chemistry B.Sc. Chemistry is an undergraduate degree program that focuses on the study of chemical substances, their properties, behavior, and interactions with other substances. Read article B.Sc. Microbiology is a study of microorganisms 23 February 2023 | Nobish BSc Microbiology is a study of microorganisms this includes various organisms like a unicellular, cluster of microscopic animals, viruses, bacteria, and fungi. Read:
                                    "B.Sc. Microbiology is a study of microorganisms" Tags Featured Trendy avenues in Biotech 23 February 2023 | Nobish Trendy avenues in Biotech
Biotechnology is an advanced course that has evolved as an integration of biology, computation and engineering. It is one of the recently emerged courses that has grown drastically in technology. Read:
                                    "Trendy avenues in Biotech" Tags Featured M.Sc. Microbiology is a postgraduate degree program 02 March 2023 | Nobish The scope of M.Sc. Microbiology is vast and varied, and it includes various fields such as medical microbiology, environmental microbiology, industrial microbiology, food microbiology, and biotechnology Read:
                                    "M.Sc. Microbiology is a postgraduate degree program" Tags B.Sc. Microbiology 02 March 2023 | Nobish Microbiology is one of the existing as well as ever developing fields of science and it consists of a greater scope of microbiology as the microbe which plays an important role in day to day life. Read:
                                    "B.Sc. Microbiology" Tags Featured Career options available after B.Sc. Biotechnology 02 March 2023 | Nobish Biotechnology is a rapidly growing field that involves the use of living organisms, cells, and biomolecules to develop new technologies and products. Read:
                                    "Career options available after B.Sc. Biotechnology" Tags Featured BSc Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics 02 March 2023 | Nobish The program involves the study of nutrition, dietetics, food science, and related fields, and prepares students to become registered dietitians or nutritionists. Students learn about the science of nutrition and its relationship to various health conditions. Read:
                                    "BSc Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics" Tags Career paths after completing a BSc Biochemistry 02 March 2023 | Nobish It involves the study of chemical processes and substances within living organisms. Read:
                                    "Career paths after completing a BSc Biochemistry" Tags Course Oriented Importance of  Psychology in Education 02 March 2023 | Nobish The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 in India has recognized the importance of psychology in the field of education. Read:
                                    "Importance of  Psychology in Education" Tags Featured Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics 02 March 2023 | Nobish It is generally taken up by bioscience students. It covers the topics in the field of Nutrition and Dietetics Science and teaches its students how to prepare a proper diet for people, food management, components of a balanced diet, eating habits, and Lifestyle management, among others. Read:
                                    "Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics" Tags Course Oriented Food Technology 02 March 2023 | Nobish There are wide opportunities in this field for students who wish to pursue a course in food technology. Read:
                                    "Food Technology" Tags Course Oriented Featured Course Oriented ADMISSION ENQUIRY 2026 Close modal ADMISSION ENQUIRY 2026 Close