PDF Document

Dear Students and parents, 
Greetings from Padmashree Institute of Management and 
Sciences, 
Choosing a right career path after 12th/PUC is a challenging 
task. Today modern world opened up for umpteen opportunities 
and making students and parents much more confused. Leaving 
aside engineering and medical there are hundreds of parallel, 
innovative and job-oriented programs, which many of us are not 
aware. To create awareness and help them to take a conscious 
decision we at Padmashree Group of Institutions is bringing 
this comprehensive hand book. The purpose of this book is to 
provide information, web links about various other options in life 
sciences, paramedical courses and  more importantly information 
about scholarships for Pursuing higher education. This will surely 
assist students to take an informed decision. This is a noble and 
humble attempt by us to lend a helping hand for students who are 
at the cross roads.
www.shiksha.com | www.promilo.com 
www.mapmytalent.in  | www.careerafter12th.in 
www.youngbuzz.com | www.youthofest.com 
www.jagranjosh.com  | www.aashwasan.org 
www.career.webindia123.com
ABOUT PADMASHREE INSTITUTE OF MANAGEMENT AND SCIENCES
Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences (PIMS), had 
its start in the year 2000. The motto of PIMS is to impart quality 
education, inculcate scientific temper and ethical values among 
its students. Now the institute has accelerated its expansion in 
establishing new courses of scientific and global importance. 
Under the able governance and leadership The college has 
been recognised by UGC under sections 2(f) and 12(b), affiliated 
to Bangalore university and recognised by Government of 
Karnataka. PIMS is one and only DDU KAUSHAL Kendra in 
Bangalore, supported by UGC, New Delhi and approval from the 
state government to offer unique job-oriented courses in Food 
sector and Medical Biotechnology. Government of Karnataka 
and DBT, New Delhi supported to establish prestigious Biotech 
Finishing School in phase I and continued as Biotechnology Skill 
Enhancement Program in phase II. PIMS also has recognised R&D 
center with state of art laboratory facilities
 ( Sprawling 35 acres of Campus 
 ( Qualified and experienced faculty
 ( Industry live projects and paper publications by students 
 ( Regular industry interactions 
 ( Job-oriented add-on programs 
 ( 100% placement assistance 
 ( Secured prizes in conferences and seminars 
 ( Published many research articles and filed patents 
 ( Academic and Industry collaborations 
 ( Industry and Government sponsored projects
HIGHLIGHTS OF PIMS
We wish you all the best
The list of web links which provide guidance and career counselling
GreetingsInformation about the scholarships / Financial Assistance:
Scholarship is boon for economically weaker section of students. This is 
beneficial to students who are unable to continue their education for some 
or the other reason. Scholarship is an incentive as well as encouragement 
for students, who are talented, but do not have the means to study fur -
ther. There are a variety of scholarships – merit-based, need-based, stu -
dent specific, career-specific, and college-specific. There are some useful 
details mentioned below:
Central/State government scholarships: 
1. National Scholarship Portal: National Scholarships Portal is one-
stop solution through which various services starting from student 
application, application receipt, processing, sanction and disbursal 
of various scholarships to Students are enabled. This initiative 
aims at providing a Simplified, Mission-oriented, Accountable, 
Responsive & Transparent ‘SMART’ System for faster & effective 
disposal of Scholarship applications and delivery of funds directly 
into beneficiaries account without any leakages. The Mission Mode 
Project (MMP) of National Scholarship Portal under the National 
e-Governance Plan aims at providing common electronic portal for 
implementing various Scholarships schemes launched by Union 
Government, State Government and Union Territories across the 
country.
Through this single portal students can apply for scholarships of Central 
scheme, UGC scheme and State scheme.
COURSES OFFERED BY PADMASHREE AFFILIATED TO RAJIV 
GANDHI UNIVERSITY OF HEALTH SCIENCES
PHYSIOTHERAPY 
NURSING 
Medical Lab Technology 
PUBLIC HEALTH 
PUBLIC HEALTH 
HOSPITAL ADMINISTRATION 
CLINICAL RESEARCH
Bachelors in physiotherapy (BPT) 
Masters in Physiotherapy (MPT) 
B.Sc. Nursing | P.B.B.Sc. (Nursing) 
M.Sc. Nursing 
Diploma - General Nursing & Midwifery (GNM) 
B.Sc. MLT | M.Sc. MLT
Bachelors in Public Health (BPH) 
Masters in Public Health (MPH) 
Bachelors in Public Health (BPH) 
Masters in Public Health (MPH) 
Bachelors in Hospital Administration
Masters in Hospital Administration
M.Sc. Clinical ResearchScholarships under central schemes: 
  Post Matric Scholarships Scheme for Minorities (Ministry of Minority 
Affairs)
  Merit Cum Means Scholarship for Professional and Technical Courses 
CS (Ministry of Minority Affairs)
  Post-matric Scholarship for Students with Disabilities (Department 
of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities)
  Scholarships for Top Class Education for students with disabilities 
(Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities)
  Top Class Education Scheme for SC Students (Ministry of Social 
Justice and Empowerment)
  Financial Assistance for Education of the Wards of Beedi/Cine/IOMC/ 
LSDM Workers - Post-Matric (Ministry of Labour and Employment)
  Aam Aadmi Bhima Y ojna Scholarship for Andhra Pradesh (Ministry of 
Labour and Employment)
  National Fellowship and Scholarship for Higher Education of ST 
Students - Scholarship (Formally TopClass Education for Schedule 
Tribe Students) - only for scholarships. (Ministry of Tribal Affairs)
  Central sector scheme of scholarships for college and university 
students (Department of Higher Education)
  Prime Minister’s Scholarship Scheme for Central Armed Police Forces 
And Assam Rifles (WARB, Ministry of Home Affairs)
  Prime Minister’s scholarship scheme for wards of States/UTs police 
personnel martyred during terror/naxal attacks (WARB, Ministry of 
Home Affairs)
  Prime Minister’s Scholarship Scheme For RPF/RPSF (RPF/RPSF, 
Ministry of Railways
Scholarships under UGC schemes:
  PG Indira Gandhi scholarship for single girl child
  ISHAN UDAY - Special Scholarship Scheme for North 
Eastern Region
  PG scholarship for university rank holders (1st and 2nd 
Rank holders)
  PG scholarship scheme for SC / ST students for pursuing 
professional courses
Scholarships under state schemes:
  Under this scheme candidate belonging to one state, but 
studying in another state, will be awarded scholarship 
by the state to which they belong and will submit their 
applications to the competent authorities in that state. 
Under NSP students belongs to the following state can 
apply for the scholarship -  Assam, Chandigarh, Bihar, 
Uttarakhand, Tripura, Karnataka, Meghalaya, Arunachal 
Pradesh, Jammu Kashmir, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, 
Himachal Pradesh and Manipur.
 For more information check -  https:/ /scholarships.gov.in  Sanchi Honnamma Student Scholarship: This scholarship began in the year 
2003-2004 for meritorious girl students so as to encourage them to pursue 
higher education. This is specifically meant for girl students who have scored 
high marks in II year PUC.
  Sir C.V. Raman Student Scholarship: This scholarship was launched in the 
year 2001-2002. This scholarship focused on encouraging students studying 
in science stream. It is meant for talented and meritorious students who are 
pursuing their education in basic sciences in government and private aided 
degree colleges.
  Kittur Rani Channamma Award: This scheme began in the year 2006-07. It 
was meant to encourage girl students, who have finished their studies in the 
II PUC, pursuing their higher education through CET examination by taking up 
vocational courses. If the students fulfill the criteria mentioned below, the 
government shall repay the amount paid by the student. For this award from 
every district, 10 girl students are selected by a committee headed by the 
District Commissioner. They shall get the award till they complete the course 
provided they clear the course in one attempt.
  Scholarship for HIV/AIDS or Leprosy Infected Parents’ Children: Students in-
fected from HIV/AIDS or Leprosy and students born to HIV/AIDS or Leprosy 
infected parents’ (dead or alive) children are eligible to get free education and 
scholarship.
  Rajiv Gandhi Debt Scholarship : Under this scheme, a loan from a bank is being 
paid by the government for the subsidy of the periodic interest for the stu -
dents of the family of less than Rs. 2.5 lakh annual income.
  Anglo-Indian Scholarship : Scholarships are being offered for fee reimburse -
ment for Anglo Indian students attending government and aided graduate 
colleges.
 For more information check - https:/ /dce.karnataka.gov.in 
1. State Scholarship Portal :  This is a simple and transparent system in -
troduced by DPAR (e-Governance), Government of Karnataka in the year 
2019. Under this system students has to e-attest their documents with 
the aid of e-attestation officers in their institute and then can apply for 
the scholarship online. The entire process is easy and transparent. Only 
SC, ST and Minority class students can apply through this portal.
 For more information check - https:/ /ssp.postmatric.karnataka.gov.in
2. Electronic Payment and Application systems of Scholarships (ePASS):  
This is another scholarship scheme under Department of Backward 
Classes Welfare, Government of Karnataka. Students of backward class-
es can avail scholarship by applying online. 
 For more information check – https:/ /karepass.cgg.gov.in
3. Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Y ojana (PMKVY) : PMKVY  is a prestigious 
scheme of the Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship (MSDE).
Under this scheme, students can gain skill training in related industries, 
which will help them find a job and build a better life. The training and 
assessment fee will be completely paid by the government for training 
conducted at PMKVY approved training centers.
 For more information check – http:/ /pmkvyofficial.org
4. Department of College Education : This is another scholarship program of 
Government of Karnataka in order to provide necessary encouragement 
and motivation to pursue higher education the Department of Collegiate 
Education is providing Scholarships to meritorious and economically 
backward students studying at Government as well as Government Aided 
First Grade Colleges.1. Kishore Vaigyanik Protsahan Y ojana :  The “Kishore Vaigyanik 
Protsahan Y ojana” (KVPY) is a program started in 1999 by the 
Department of Science and Technology (DST), Government of 
India to encourage students who are studying Basic Sciences 
to take up research career in Science. The aim of the program 
is to identify and encourage talented and motivated students to 
pursue career in research.
  The fellowship of the students selected under this stream will 
be activated only if they join an undergraduate course in Basic 
Sciences (B.Sc./B.S./B.Stat./B.Math. /Int. M.Sc./Int. M.S.) in the 
academic year 2021-22 after having secured a minimum of 60% 
(50% for SC/ST/PWD) marks in aggregate in science subjects in 
the XII standard/ (+2) Board Examination.
  Candidates meeting the eligibility criteria for various streams,  
will be called for  aptitude test conducted both in Hindi and 
English at different centers across the country. 
  Based on the performance in the aptitude test, short-listed 
students will be asked to appear for an interview which is the 
final stage of the selection procedure. 
 For more information check - http:/ /www.kvpy.iisc.ernet.in 
2. INSPIRE Scholarship For Higher Education (SHE) :  Scholarship 
for Higher Education (SHE) is a component program under 
Innovation in Science Pursuit for Inspired Research (INSPIRE) 
program, which is a flagship scheme of the Department of 
Science and Technology (DST), under the Ministry of Science and 
Technology, Government of India. INSPIRE programme includes 
three components namely Scheme for Early Attraction of Talents 
for Science (SEATS), Scholarships for Higher Education (SHE) and 
Assured Opportunity for Research Careers (AORC). Scholarship 
for Higher Education (SHE) aims at attracting talented youth into 
undertaking higher education in science intensive programmes, 
by providing scholarships and mentoring through ‘summer 
attachment’ to performing researchers.
 For more information check - http:/ /online-inspire.gov.in/
3. Central Sector Interest Subsidy Scheme (CSIS): One of the major 
objectives of the Government is to ensure that no student is 
denied the opportunity to pursue higher education because he or 
she is poor. To achieve this objective, Ministry of Human Resource 
Development (MHRD) launched a Scheme titled “Central Sector 
Interest Subsidy Scheme” (CSIS) in 2009. 
  This scheme benefits all categories of economically weaker 
students for pursuing professional/ technical courses in India 
only, and intends to provide affordable higher education. 
  The Scheme, envisages to uplift the students from the grassroot 
level and increase the number of qualified technicians/ 
professionals in the nation. 
  The Scheme is adopted by all Scheduled Banks and is linked with 
the existing Model Educational Loan scheme of the Indian Banks’ 
Association, and restricted to students enrolled in professional/ 
technical courses only from NAAC accredited Institutions 
or professional/ technical programs accredited by NBA or 
Institutions of National Importance or Central Funded Technical 
Institutions (CFTIs).
 For more information check - https:/ /mhrd.gov.in
OTHER SCHOLARSHIPS4. Vidyasaarathi : Vidyasaarathi is a platform by NSDL e-Gov for applying 
to various scholarships provided by corporates. Vidyasaarathi does 
not charge any fees to students in any way to apply for scholarships 
and awarding of scholarship is the sole discretion right of a corporate. 
Applying to scholarships does not in any way guarantee the award of 
scholarship. 
 For more information check - https:/ /www.vidyasaarathi.co.in 
5. Private scholarships : There are some private funding agencies, 
which support students for higher education by providing funds/
scholarships. Some such foundations are listed below :
  Sitaram Jindal Foundation Scholarships (https:/ /www.
sitaramjindalfoundation.org/)
  The J. N. Tata endowment for the higher education of Indians (https:/ /
www.jntataendowment.org/)
 ( First of its kind flagship program of UGC, New Delhi
 ( Complies with national skill quality frame work guidelines of ministry of skill 
development and entrepreneurship
 ( Multi entry and exit options with industry internship/ project at every exit point
 ( 100% industry internship and job placement assistance Employable at Food 
processing industries, Milk and Milk products manufacturing setups, Herbal industries, 
Health food companies, Beverages segment, Snacks and Savouries manufacturing 
companies, Baking technology, Chocolates and Biscuit industry, Nutraceuticals and 
dietary supplement organizations, Fish and Meat product manufacturing set ups, 
Food parks, Flour manufacturing companies, Canneries, Breweries, Wineries, Fruit 
and Vegetable Processing units, Ready to eat technologies, Frozen foods, Fortified 
foods, Functional foods, Probiotics, Prebiotics, Packaging technologies, Flavours 
and food colours, Pickle Industry, Sugar Industry, Enzyme technologies, Protein 
supplements, Health food manufacturing set ups, Starch industry.
Job roles:  Production managers, Supervisors, Packaging technologist, Food Analyst, Food 
Technician, Quality Control -Manager, Quality control officer, Quality assurance officer, Food 
auditor, Product development technologist, Research officers, Scientist, Brewer, Business 
Executives, Scientific officers, Food safety supervisor, Sales and marketing executives.
Eligibility:
B.Voc - PU or 10+ 2, or any other equivalent qualification
M.Voc - Graduation in any branch of life sciences or biological sciences with 40% aggregate 
marks and 45% in cognate subjects.
PADMASHREE IS OFFERING VARIOUS SKILL UPGRADING AND JOB ORIENTED COURSES IN FOOD SCIENCES
Get started with a professional career planning in Food, Nutrition and Health Sectors
FOOD INDUSTRY 
 One of the biggest globally and expected to reach US $ 3.03 trillion by 2020
India is the second largest producer | There is a huge requirement of professionally skilled manpower 
9 million skilled personnel are required by 2024
 B.VOC AND M.VOC IN FOOD PROCESSING AND NUTRACEUTICALS/FOOD TECHNOLOGY AND QUALITY MANAGEMENT
 Recognized by UGC, New Delhi as DDU KAUSHAL KENDRABiotechnology
A modern era of biology harnessing living systems develops or makes 
products improving life and health. Curriculum covers basic, applied and 
industrial aspects of Molecular biology, Microbiology, Biochemistry of plants, 
animals and microbes.
Employability
Biotechnologist, Scientist, Research associate, Research officer, Research 
assistant, Lab technologist, Immunologist, Informatics Biolotechnologist, 
Biomedical technician, Molecular biologist, Biomedical scientist, 
Clinical research scientist, Food biotechnologist, Healthcare scientist, 
Nanotechnologist, Pharmacobiotechnologist, Senior analyst Biochemistry, 
Biofuels – Scientific officer, Fermentation biologist, Genetic engineer.
Microbiology
Opens avenues in fascinating world of microbes having wide array of applications 
in Life science sector. Curriculum covers Microbial technology, industrial 
microbiology Recombinant DNA Technology, Immunology, Enzyme technology, 
Molecular biology.
Employability
Microbiologist, Research Associate, Research Officer, Research Assistant, 
Senior lab Technologists, Immunologist, Quality Control Analyst, Quality  Control 
Biologist, Quality Control Scientist, Quality control Manager, Bioinformatics 
Biologist, Biomedical Scientist, Clinical Research Associate, Food Microbiologist, 
Probiotics Production manager, Pharmacologist, Research Scientist, Technical 
Brewer, Water Quality Scientist, Quality Analyst Research Scientist, Genomic 
Biologist.
Biochemistry
An exciting interdisciplinary science dealing with Molecular and biochemical 
processes of living organisms. Biochemistry can encompass a wide range of 
studies, including biomolecules, metabolism, medical biochemistry, enzymes, 
genetic research, immunology, pharmacology, forensics, cancer research, 
environmental science and food science. 
Employability
Biochemist, Research associate, Research officer, Research assistant, lab 
technologists, Immunologist, QC Analyst, QC Biochemist, QC Scientist, 
QC – lead, Manager- QC, Informatics biologist, Chemi informatics scientist, 
Biomedical scientist, Clinical biochemist, Food biochemist, Healthcare 
scientist, Nanotechnologist, Pharmacologist, Research scientist, Biologist – 
biofuels.
Genetics
A genetics degree can lead to a career in scientific research or industry, as 
well as setting you up with skills that can be used in a range of alternative 
jobs.
Employability
Genomic biologist, Medical geneticist, Clinical Research Associate, 
Healthcare Scientist, Genomics Scientist, Plant breeder/geneticist, 
Research officer, Molecular geneticist in diagnostics, Research Scientist 
(life sciences), Research Scientist (medical), Gene therapy Research 
Scientist, Genomic Biologist, Proteomic Biologist, Genomic Curator, 
Proteomic Curator, Biologist, Scientific Officer. 
OPPORTUNITIES GALORE IN JOB ORIENTED PROGRAMSClinical Nutrition and Dietetics:
Clinical nutrition and dietetics is important to provide a comprehensive 
professional education that focuses on nutrition and its application in 
prevention and disease management that prepares graduates to practice 
in a wide range of clinical, consulting, and industry settings. 
Employability:
Practice and implement state of art nutrition care or consultancy in 
health food industry, critical care nutrition segments, clinical setups, 
nutraceutical industry, sports and fitness centres, therapeutic nutrition 
product manufacturing set ups, geriatric care units, meal/food distribution 
centres, women and child development organizations, Food auditing set 
ups, Food testing labs, academic colleges, research institutes and Food 
corporations.
Food Science and Nutrition:
This course offers advanced learning in food science of healthy food and 
nutrition. It is most sought discipline and covers wide range of areas 
related to Food science, Food chemistry, Nutrition, Food Microbiology, 
Functional foods, Dietary supplements. 
Employability:
Employable at Hospitals, Health clubs, Diagnostic labs, Sports centres, 
Fitness centres, Food processing industries, Health departments, Schools, 
Colleges, Restaurants, Milk and Milk Product Development (R&D), 
Health Food Companies, Beverage’s segment, Snacks and Savouries 
manufacturing companies, Baking technology, Confectionaries, food 
parks.
Food Science and Nutrition:
This course offers advanced learning in food science of healthy food and 
nutrition. It is most sought discipline and covers wide range of areas 
related to Food science, Food chemistry, Nutrition, Food Microbiology, 
Functional foods, Dietary supplements. 
Employability:
Employable at Hospitals, Health clubs, Diagnostic labs, Sports centres, 
Fitness centres, Food processing industries, Health departments, Schools, 
Colleges, Restaurants, Milk and Milk Product Development (R&D), 
Health Food Companies, Beverage’s segment, Snacks and Savouries 
manufacturing companies, Baking technology, Confectionaries, food 
parks.
Nutrition and Dietetics:
Nutrition & Dietetics The four-year program aims at conceptual 
understanding of the key elements of nutrition and dietetics. Students 
would be trained in areas such as nutritional assessment, diet planning, 
food product development, health communication, clinical nutrition, 
nutrition education and behavior modification. 
Employability:
Practice and implement state of art nutrition care or consultancy in 
health food industry, critical care nutrition segments, clinical setups, 
nutraceutical industry, sports and fitness centers, therapeutic nutrition 
product manufacturing set ups, geriatric care units, meal/food distribution 
centers, women and child development organizations, Food auditing set 
ups, Food testing labs, academic colleges, research institutes and Food 
corporations.B. Voc Medical Biotechnology:
Recognized by DDU KAUSHAL KENDRA which is a skill enhancement program. 
This course helps students to become industry ready and gives life science 
students excellent opportunity to acquire skills and apply them in the 6 months 
industry internship which is a part of the curriculum.
Employability:
Biotechnology and Applied Sciences are the future of the world. The Biotech sector 
in India is projected to grow by 30.46% CAGR by 2025, making India stand amongst 
the top 12 biotech destinations in the world. There are many career opportunities 
available in Research and Development, Pharmaceutical Companies, Hospitals, 
Diagnostic Centres, the Manufacturing Sector of Biotechnology, Academic Sector 
for students who want to make a career in Medical Biotechnology. The course is 
also designed to groom the students into entrepreneurs.
M Voc Food Processing and Nutraceuticals:
  Skill up gradation and job orientation is the main objective.
  Complies with National Skill Quality Frame Work guidelines of Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship.
  Industry participation in curriculum design and delivery.
  Multi-exit and Entry options with industry internship at every exit point.
  100% industry internship and Job assistance.
  Training from entry level jobs to entrepreneurship.
  Course provides vertical and horizontal mobility.
Employability:
Food processing is a sun-rising sector in India has been facing a severe shortage of 
industry-ready graduates and post-graduates for a long time. 
The most common areas of employment are Canning, Dairy and Food Processing, 
Packaging, Frozen Food / Refrigeration and Thermo-Processing. Some of the 
sub-sectors of the food processing industry are Fruits & Vegetables Processing, 
Fisheries, Milk & Milk Products, Meat & Poultry, Alcoholic Beverages & Soft Drinks 
and Grain processing.
M Voc in Medical Biotechnology:
  Skill up gradation and job orientation is the main objective.
  Complies with National Skill Quality Frame Work guidelines of Ministry of 
Skill Development and Entrepreneurship.
  Industry participation in curriculum design and delivery.
  Multi-exit and Entry options with industry internship at every exit point.
  100% industry internship and Job assistance.
  Training from entry level jobs to entrepreneurship.
  Course provides vertical and horizontal mobility.
Employability:
The course is also designed to groom the students into entrepreneurs.
Candidates with M. Voc Medical Biotechnology are employable as Executive/
Officer/Technical Officer/Scientific Officer/Scientist in R&D/QA/QC and 
production divisions of food and beverage, pharma, nutraceutical and herbal 
industries.
B. Voc Food Processing and Nutraceuticals:
Recognized by DDU KAUSHAL KENDRA which is a skill enhancement program. 
This course helps students to become industry ready and gives life science 
students excellent opportunity to acquire skills and apply them in the 6 months 
industry internship which is a part of the curriculum.
Employability:
The course is pro-industry and students coming out of the course would be placed 
in food processing industries, herbal extraction in various roles such as production, 
packaging, quality control, auditing, product development, sales, and marketing.
The course is also designed to groom the students into entrepreneurs.Bright Careers in Life Sciences
Bachelors of Science (Genetics, Biochemistry and Biotechnology) 
Bachelors of Science (Microbiology, Biochemistry and Biotechnology)
About the Course
All fields of biology are moving ahead at breakneck speed whether it may 
be solving human genomic puzzles or drug discoveries. The courses have 
been designed keeping in view the demands of present and future. The 
curriculum includes subjects to cover a wide range of concepts which is a 
prerequisite to excel in this inter-disciplinary program.
Duration : 3 years (6 semesters)
Eligibility: 
PUC/12TH Std / 10+2/ equivalent with at least biology and chemistry as 
two optional Subjects.
Master of Science (Microbiology)
About the Course
The field of Microbiology covers area such as Bacteriology, Virology, 
Mycology and Parasitology. The industrial visits and internships are 
arranged to allow the students to gain insight into the application of 
the subject in the industry. The curriculum has been designed to train 
the students in good lab practices and encourage them to expand their 
knowledge base by applying for projects and publishing papers. Intensive 
lab assignments and project works are carried out to equip the students in 
microbiological techniques.
Eligibility: Graduation in any branch of life sciences having Microbiology/
Botany as optional with 40% aggregate marks and 45% in cognate 
subjects. 
Duration:  2 years (4 semesters)
Employability:
Postgraduate microbiologists are in high demand in quality control and 
assurance in a range of product based companies such as food processing, 
beverages, breweries and cosmetics, diagnostics .they can also work 
as Biomedical scientist, Biotechnologist, Clinical research associate, 
Food technologist, Healthcare scientist, immunology Microbiologist,  
Nanotechnologist, Pharmacologist, Research scientist (life sciences), 
Technical brewer and Water quality scientist.
Master of Science (Biotechnology)
The course is designed to equip the students with the necessary skills 
to excel in the various domains of biotechnology ranging from the 
research and development to bioprocess engineering. The curriculum 
involves exposure to various segments of the domain and appreciation 
of the rapidly growing technology in the field. Students are encouraged 
to further their expertise in various affiliated domains such as IPR and 
biosafety as well as hands-on experience in tools and techniques via 
extensive practical experiments. Students are encouraged and assisted to 
earn projects, grants and fellowships. Assistance to join internships in the 
relevant industries is provided to ensure the students are industry-ready.
Eligibility: Graduation in any branch of life sciences having 40% aggregate marks and 45% in cognate subjects. 
Duration:  2 years (4 semesters)
Employability
The career prospects are lucrative for Postgraduates in biotechnology and 
can gain entry into a wide array of jobs in Academics, Research, Health 
sector, Clinical Research, Drug design, Product development, Sales and 
Marketing, Business development, Production and manufacturing, Bio 
informatics, Bioprocess and Fermentation, Food and Agri biotech, IPR, 
Environmental Biotechnology
Master of Science (Biochemistry)
About the Course
The students are encouraged to understand the basics through extensive 
practical classes. The industrial visits and internships are arranged to 
allow the students to gain insight into the application of the subject in 
the industry. The students are also assisted in applying for DBT, DST 
sponsored projects as well as assistance is given in preparation for JRF 
exams.
Eligibility: Graduation in any branch of life sciences having Biochemistry/
Chemistry as an optional subject with  40% aggregate marks and 45% in 
cognate subjects. 
Duration:  2 years (4 semesters)
Employability:
Biochemists are in high demand in diagnostics, health care sector, 
contract research organizations, quality control and quality assurance 
and applied research to develop methods and protocols for qualitative and 
quantitative assays in drug development and clinical research.
All the above are applied branches of life sciences and have job opportunities 
at  Pharma Industry, Bio informatics companies, Clinical research 
organisations, Testing and Analytical centres, Diagnostics, Health care 
sector, Food and beverage industry, Agri technology, Biofertilizer, Spice 
industry, Diary and milk products, Meat industry, Marine products, Poultry 
industry, Biofuels and Bio - energy, Herbal Industry, Nutraceutical industry, 
Biotechnology companies, Forensic Science laboratories, Research 
organisations, Public health organisations, Environmental organisations, 
waste management, water treatment, Regulatory bodies like FSSAI, ISO, 
Defence research, Central, State and Private research and development 
organisations, Agriculture research organizations, Breweries, Vaccine 
development organisations, Wineries, Testing laboratories, Fermentation 
industry, Drug Discovery organisations, Plant and Animal tissue culture 
technologies, Seed development organizations.
Apart from all these courses the college also supports the students to 
takeup Skill Enhancement Certification Programs recognised under Life 
Science Sector Skill Development Council (LSSSDC), Govt of India. The 
students get equipped for specific job roles and become job ready based 
on industry needs.
Apart from curriculum, we encourage the students learning 
through ICT/E-Learning:
SWAYAM, e – krishi shiksha, ICMR- NIN, Open WHO
SWAYAM – (https:/ /swayam.gov.in/)
 “Study Webs of Active-Learning for Y oung Aspiring 
Minds”(SWAYAM) is an Indian Massive open online course 
(MOOC) platform. SWAYAM is an initiative launched by the All 
India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and Ministry of 
Human Resource Development (MHRD), Government of India. 
It facilitates 2,000 courses (Life sciences, Food technology, 
Management, communication and Programming courses etc). 
This Course is conduct by nine coordinators, all over India.   They 
are:
  AICTE (All India Council for Technical Education) for self-
paced and international courses
  NPTEL (National Programme on Technology Enhanced 
Learning) for Engineering
  UGC (University Grants Commission) for non - technical 
post-graduation education
  CEC (Consortium for Educational Communication) for 
under-graduate education
  NCERT (National Council of Educational Research and 
Training) for school education
  NIOS (National Institute of Open Schooling) for school 
education
  IGNOU (Indira Gandhi National Open University) for out-of-
school students
  IIMB (Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore) for management 
studies
  NITTTR (National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and 
Research) for Teacher Training programme.
e – krishi shiksha - (http:/ /ecoursesonline.iasri.res.in/)
Under Learning and Capacity Building program of NAIP, several course 
Home sciences, Dairy technology, Horticulture and Fisheries sciences have 
been developed at Agricultural Education Division of ICAR -Agricultural 
Universities (AUs) System comprising State Agricultural Universities 
(SAUs), Deemed to be universities (DUs), Central Agricultural University 
(CAU) and Central Universities (CUs) with Agriculture Faculty.
ICMR-NIN POSHAN Abhiyaan  - (http:/ /poshan-abhiyaan.ninindia.org/)
The e-learning portal have various nutritional focus - Basics of Nutrition, 
Child feeding, Mothers’ Health & Nutrition, Anemia, Y oga, Food fortification, 
Physical activity, etc. have been developed at Ministry of women and Child 
development (MWCD) and Ministry of Health and Family welfare (MHFW).
Open WHO - (https:/ /openwho.org/)
Open WHO is World Health Organization (WHO) interactive, web-based, 
knowledge-transfer platform offering online courses to improve the 
response to health emergencies. It provides a knowledge of latest 
scientific and operation know-how.
NAHEP (National Agricultural Higher education project)
https:/ /nahep.icar.gov.in/
BEYOND SYLLABUSWhy to choose PIMS in Bangalore?
  Highly Experienced faculty for best CSIR NET Coaching in Bangalore 
to provide depth knowledge about the topic.
  Separate batches, personal attention and advanced level coaching 
to solve student’s queries and doubts
  Regular Assignment and more attention to weak learners
  100% Career focused teaching
CSIR NET coaching-
PIMS is a leading South India’s prestigious institutes in Bangalore. We 
are providing Classroom and Online Coaching for CSIR Net and JRF Life 
Sciences.
We are offering all kind of Coaching for CSIR NET For Lectureship (LS) 
and Junior Research Fellowship (JRF) entrance exam Preparation. Along 
with the regular syllabus, Phd entrance exam preparation also available 
at PIMS.
PIMS is run by an excellent & highly qualified team of faculties who are 
doctorates and post doctorates. The institute aims to prepare students 
for various competitive entrance examinations related to CSIR NET 
Life Sciences, by using innovative tricks & techniques and coaching 
methodology to clear easily this exam.
PIMS offers an open platform which can be used by students to increase 
their subject & course knowledge, strengthen fundamentals and finally 
beat the competitions. PIMS offers Online coaching & Online classes 
for Joint CSIR-UGC National Eligibility Test (NET) for Junior Research 
Fellowship (JRF) and for Lectureship (LS). PIMS is also offering special 
coaching for CSIR NET JRF LS Repeaters.
Life Sciences
A 15 out of 20 question to be attempted 30 200 3 Hours
B 5 out of 25 question to be attempted 70
C 20 out of 70 question to be attempted 100
The comprehensive study program has been created by PIMS Faculties to provide all round coaching for the students. 
Examination Scheme for Joint UGC-CSIR-NET/JRF
Age Limit and Relaxation:
JRF: Not more than 28 years. A relaxation upto 3 years is provided to the 
candidates belonging to OBC (Non-creamy layer. Relaxation upto 5 years 
for SC/ST/PwD/Transgender categories and to women applicants. Relax-
ation will also be provided to the candidates having research experience, 
limited to the period spent on research in the relevant/related subject of 
post-graduation degree, subject to a maximum of 5 years, on production 
of a certificate from appropriate authority.
 Assistant Professor: There is no upper age limit for applying for As -
sistant Professor.
Exemption (Eligibility for Assistant Professor)
(i) NET/SET/SLET shall remain the minimum eligibility condition for re-
cruitment and appointment of Assistant Professors in Universities/
Colleges/ Institutions. In this regard, exemption from NET/SET/SLET 
will be governed by UGC regulations and amendments notified in the 
Gazette of India from time to time. 
(ii) The candidates who have passed the UGC/CSIR JRF examination 
prior to 1989 are also exempted from appearing in NET.
(iii) For SET Candidates: The candidates who have cleared the States 
Eligibility Test (SET) accredited by UGC for Assistant Professor held 
prior to 1st June 2002, are exempted from appearing in NET, and are 
eligible to apply for Assistant Professor anywhere in India. For SET 
held from 1st June 2002 onwards, the qualified candidates are eli -
gible to apply for the post of Assistant Professor only in the univer -
sities/colleges situated in the State from where they have cleared 
their SET.
Minimum Educational Qualification for NET/JRF:
M.Sc. / MCA / M.Tech or Equivalent degree with at least 55% marks for 
General and OBC candidates 50% for SC/ST candidates, Physically and 
Visually handicapped candidates
Eligibility:
(i)  Candidates who have secured at least 55% marks in Master’s De -
gree or equivalent examination from universities/institutions rec -
ognised by UGC. The Other Backward Classes (OBC) belonging to 
non-creamy layer/Scheduled Caste (SC)/Scheduled Tribe (ST)/per-
sons with disability (PwD) category candidates who have secured 
at least 50% marks.(ii) Candidates who are pursuing their Master’s degree or equivalent 
course or candidates who have appeared for their qualifying Mas -
ter’s degree (final year) examination may also apply for this test. 
Such candidates must complete their Masters degree or equivalent 
examination within two years from the date of NET result with re -
quired percentage of marks, failing which they shall be treated as 
disqualified.
(iii) Candidates belonging to the transgender category would be eligible 
to draw the same relaxation in fee, age and qualifying criteria for 
NET (i.e. JRF and Assistant Professor) as are available to SC/ST/
PwD categories. (iv) The Ph.D.degree holders whose Master’s level 
examination have been completed by 19th September 1991.
NET/JRF Exam Schedule:
NTA-UGC and CSIR-UGC conducts NET twice a year, i.e., in the months 
of June and December. The notifications announcing the June and De -
cember examinations are published in the months of February/March and 
August/September respectively in the weekly journal of nation-wide cir -
culation, viz, Employment News.
Scholarship: 
The scholarship of the JRF (NET) fellowship, at present, is 25,000/- per 
month plus HRA. The fellowship will be governed by terms and conditions 
of CSIR, UGC or Research Scheme, as applicable. The number of fellow -
ships for each subject is limited. SC/ST applicants will be given such spe-
cial considerations as may be decided by the Co-ordination Committee as 
per policy guidelines.
The duration of fellowship will be initially for 2 years carrying a monthly 
stipend of 25,000/-. On completion of two years as JRF (NET), the stipend 
of a fellow may be increased to 28,000/-p.m. for the 3rd year on the basis 
of assessment of candidate’s research progress through interview by the 
prescribed Expert Committee and Ph.D. registration. Upon such a recom -
mendation, the fellow will be called SRF (NET). The total tenure as JRF 
(NET) plus SRF (NET) shall not exceed 5 years.
Advantages of NET- JRF over NET- LS
Candidates who have qualified for the JRF are also eligible for the lec -
tureship.
A certain number of JRFs are awarded each year by CSIR-UGC to the can-
didates who qualify in the joint entrance examination conducted by CSIR-
UGC. The CSIR Fellowships are tenable in Universities/IITs/Post-Graduate 
Colleges/Government Research Establishments including those of CSIR, 
R&D establishments of recognized public or private sector, industrial 
firms and other recognized institutions however, the candidates qualify -
ing for Lectureship-NET will be eligible for recruitment as lecturer as well 
as for JRF-fellowship in a Scheme/Project, if otherwise suitable as per 
the eligibility criteria of that Scheme/Project.
However, they will not be eligible for Regular JRF-NET Fellowship. They 
will be eligible to pursue PhD program with or without any fellowship oth-
er than JRF-NET.  Advanced Materials and Processes Research Institute (AMPRI), Bhopal
  Central Building Research Institute, Roorkee
  Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology, Hyderabad
  Central Drug Research Institute, Lucknow
  Central Electrochemical Research Institute, Karaikudi
  Central Electronics Engineering Research Institute, Pilani
  Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research, Dhanbad (CFRI Campus)
  Central Food Technological Research Institute, Mysore
  Central Glass & Ceramic Research Institute, Kolkata
  Central Institute of Medicinal & Aromatic Plants, Lucknow
  Central Leather Research Institute, Chennai
  Central Mechanical Engineering Research Institute, Durgapur
  CSIR Centre for Mathematical Modelling & Computer Simulation, Banga-
lore
  Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research, Dhanbad (CMRI Campus)
  Central Road Research Institute, New Delhi
  Central Scientific Instruments Organisation, Chandigarh
  CSIR Madras Complex, Chennai
  Central Salt & Marine Chemicals Research Institute, Bhavnagar
  Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi
  Institute of Himalayan Bioresource Technology, Palampur
  Indian Institute of Chemical Biology, Kolkata
  Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, Hyderabad
  Indian Institute of Petroleum, DehraDun
  Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine(IIIM), Jammu
  Indian Institute of Toxicology Research , Lucknow
  Institute of Microbial Technology, Chandigarh
  Institute of Minerals and Materials Technology(IMMT), Bhubaneswar
  National Aerospace Laboratories, Bangalore
  National Botanical Research Institute, Lucknow
  National Chemical Laboratory, Pune
  CSIR Unit for Research and Development of Information Products,Pune
  National Environmental Engineering Research Institute, Nagpur
  National Geophysical Research Institute, Hyderabad
  National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science & Technology, Thiruvanan-
thapuram
  National Institute of Oceanography, Goa
  National Institute of Science Communication And Information Resources, 
New Delhi
  National Institute of Science, Technology And Development Studies, New 
Delhi
  National Metallurgical Laboratory, Jamshedpur
  National Physical Laboratory, New Delhi
  North - East Institute of Science and Technology, Jorhat
  Structural Engineering Research Centre, Chennai
CSIR LABS IN INDIAIISc. Bangalore
IIT-Bombay
IIT-Delhi
IIT-Kharagpur
IIT-Roorkee
ICGEB, New Delhi
Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology
IARI
Central Drug Research Institute
ACBR, Delhi University:
Delhi University South Campus:
NCPGR, New Delhi
Institute of Virology
National Chemical Laboratory
Central Food Technological Research Institute
Cancer Research Institute
Biotech Consortium India Limited (BCIL)
Birla Institute of Scientific Research (BISR)
Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering
Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore
All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, 
INDIA
Jawaharlal Nehru University
National Chemical Laboratory - Y our Partner from 
Concept to Market
Central Food Technological Research Institute, My -
sore
Website of Bose Institute, Kolkata
Tata Memorial Centre
Biotech Consortium India Limited
Birla Institute of Scientific Research
Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering
Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants 
(CIMAP)
Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB)
Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and DNA Diagnostics 
(CDFD)
Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)
Food and Drug Toxicology Research Centre (FDTRC)
Forest Research Institute (FRI)
Genetic Research Centre
Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education (HBCSE)
Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR)
Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)
Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT)
Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH)
Institute of Applied Medicine and Research
Institute of Life Sciences
Institute of Microbial Technology (IMTECH)
Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific 
Research
National Academy of Agricultural Sciences
National Brain Research Centre (NBRC)
National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources:
National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources
National Bureau of Plant and Genetic Resource
National Centre for Biological Sciences (NCBS)
National Centre for Laboratory Animal Science 
(NCLAS)
National Centre for Plant Genome Research
National Centre of Cell Science (NCCS)
National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI)
National Environmental Engineering research Inst.
Leading Research Institutes of India where one can apply after qualifying JRFAkay Flavour’s & Aromatics Pvt Ltd., Cochin
Alfanzymes Biotech Pvt Ltd., Belagavi
Ambadi Dairy Products, Thiruvanthapuram
Amroon Foods Pvt Ltd., Barabanki, U.P
Bikanerwala, Delhi
Bioplus Lifesciences Pvt Ltd., Bengaluru
Biocon Pvt.Ltd., Bengaluru
Centre for Processing Food, Bengaluru
Coach Nutrachem India Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru
Doehler India Pvt Ltd., Pune
Everest Beverages and food Industries, Meerut
Haldiram Snacks Pvt Ltd., Noida, U.P
Hector Beverages Pvt Ltd., Mysuru
Hillgreen Company, Bangalore
Himalaya Drug Company, Bengaluru
Hindustan UniLever Limited (Food Division) Bengaluru
Jagdale Industries, Bengaluru
Jubilant foods Pvt. ltd bangalore
Maiyas Beverages and Food Pvt Ltd., Bengaluru
Mother Dairy, Bengaluru
MTR Foods Pvt Ltd., Bengaluru
Mysore Food Products Ltd., Indore, M.P
Molecular Connections Pvt.Ltd. Bengaluru
Nallara Group of Industries, Kerala
Natural Remedies Pvt Ltd., Bengaluru
Nestle (India) Ltd., Nanjungud, Mysuru
Pelican Biotech & Chemical Labs Pvt Ltd., Alleppey
Paramount Nutrition India Pvt Ltd., Bengaluru
IADFAC Laboratories Pvt Ltd., Bengaluru
Lotus labs Pvt Ltd., Bengaluru
Radiant Research & Services Pvt Ltd., Bengaluru
Rishi Herbal Technologies Pvt Ltd., Bengaluru
Sami Labs Limited, Bengaluru
Sanat Products Ltd., Sikhandarabad, U.P
Srini Food Park Pvt.Ltd., Chittoor, A.P.
Stanes & Company, Coimbatore
Star Hi- Herbs Pvt Ltd., Bengaluru
TÜV SÜD South Asia Bangalorehi
Biogenero Pvt Ltd., Bengaluru
Kottaram Agro foods Pvt. Ltd. Bengaluru
Pronature Pvt Ltd., Bengaluru
Synthite Industries Kollencherry, Kerala
Akshaya Patra Foundation, Bengaluru
Sunil Agro Foods Pvt Ltd.,Bengaluru
OUR STUDENTS ARE INTERNED/ PLACED @
Life sciences and other Bangalore university affiliated courses
Prof. M. Anuradha, email: pimsprincipal@gmail.com. Mobile: 9902863900
Paramedical and Allied health sciences courses
Prof. Rajesh Shenoy, email: pgibangalore@gmail.com. Mobile: 9663571097