PDF Document

123456789100  
 
 
 
 
Bangalore University 
Department of Environmental Science 
Jnanabharathi Campus 
Bengaluru – 560 056 
 
 
 
Syllabus for 
ABILITY ENHANCEMENT COMPULSORY COURSE (AECC) 
ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES 
Under-Graduate (UG) Program 
Framed according to the National Education Policy (NEP 2020) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
September 21, 2021 
111  
Board of Studies (UG) members present and approved the Syllabus 
 
Sl No Name and Association Designation 
 
1 
 
Dr. B. C. Nagaraja 
Department of Environmental Science, Bangalore 
University, Bangalore 
. 
 
 
Chairperson 
 
2 
 
Prof. N. Nandini 
Department of Environmental Science, Bangalore 
University, Bangalore 
 
 
Member 
 
3 
 
Dr. K.L. Prakash 
Department of Environmental Science, Bangalore 
University, Bangalore 
 
 
Member 
 
4 
 
Dr. Helen Roseline, 
Associate Professor,  
Department of Environmental Science, 
Mount Carmel College, Bangalore 
 
 
Member 
 
5 
 
Dr.  Alkananda J Adur 
Assistant Professor 
Department of Environmental Science, Surana 
College, Bangalore 
 
 
Member 
 
6 
 
Dr. Kavitha K R  
Associate Professor, Department of Botany 
Government Science College, Bangalore 
 
 
Member 
 
7 
 
Dr. P. Anitha,  
Associate Professor, Department of Botany, 
BMS College for Women, Bangalore 
 
 
Member 
 
8 
 
Dr. Rinku Verma 
Associate Professor, Department of Forestry 
& Environmental Science, University of 
Agriculture Science, Bangalore 
 
 
Member 
 
 
 
122   
133  
AECC – ENVIRONMENTAL STUDIES SYLLABUS 
 
 
Number of Theory 
Credits 
Number of lecture 
hours 
Number of field work 
hours 
2 45 5 
 
 
Unit Content 45 hours 
 
Unit 1 
Introduction to Environmental Studies  
2 Multidisciplinary nature of environmental studies Scope and 
importance; Concept of sustainability andsustainable 
development. 
 
 
 
Unit 2 
Ecosystems  
 
 
6 
Definition, concept, Structure and function of ecosystem; 
Energy flow in an ecosystem: food chains, food webs and 
ecological succession. Case studies of the following 
ecosystems: Forest ecosystem, Grassland ecosystem, Desert 
ecosystem, Aquatic ecosystems ( ponds, streams, lakes, 
rivers, oceans,estuaries). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unit 3 
Natural Resources: Renewable and Non-Renewable 
Resources 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8 
Land resources, types and distribution and land-use change; 
Land degradation, soil erosion and desertification. 
Deforestation: Causes and impacts due to mining, dam 
building on environment, forests, biodiversity and tribal 
populations. Water: Resource types, distribution and status. 
Use and over -exploitation of surface and ground water, 
floods, droughts, conflicts over water sharing, types of water 
sharing (international & inter -state). Energy resources: 
Renewable and non-renewable energy sources, use of 
alternate energy sources, growing energy needs, case 
studies. 
 
Unit 4 
Biodiversity and Conservation  
8 Levels of biological diversity: Genetic, species  and 
ecosystem diversity; Biogeographic zones of India; 
144  
 Biodiversity patterns and global biodiversity hot spots. 
Biodiversity hotspots of India.   India as a mega-biodiversity 
nation; Endangered and endemic species of India. Threats to 
biodiversity: Habitat loss, poaching of wildlife, man-wildlife 
conflicts, biological invasions; Conservation of biodiversity: 
In-situ and Ex -situ conservation of biodiversity. Ecosystem 
and biodiversity services: Ecological, economic, social,  ethical 
and aesthetic value. 
 
 
 
 
Unit 5 
Environmental Pollution  
 
 
8 
Environmental pollution: types, causes, effects 
and controls; Air, water, soil and noise pollution. Climate 
change, global warming, ozone layer depletion, acidrain and 
impacts on human communities and agriculture. Nuclear 
hazards and human health risks. Solid waste management, 
Control measures of urban and industrial waste Pollution 
case studies. 
 
 
 
 
Unit 6 
Environmental Policies and Practices  
 
 
 
7 
Environment Laws: Environment Protection Act; Air 
(Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act; Water (Prevention 
and control of Pollution) Act; Wildlife Protection Act; Forest 
Conservation Act, Solid Waste Management Rules. 
International Conventions on Environ ment: Ramsar 
convention, Montreal protocol, Paris agreement, Basel 
convention and Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD). 
Nature reserves, tribal populations and rights, and human 
wildlife conflicts in Indian context 
 
 
 
 
Unit 7 
Human Communities and the Environment 
Human population growth:  Impacts on environment, 
human health and welfare. Resettlement and rehabilitation of 
project affected persons; case studies. Disaster management: 
floods, earthquake, cyclones and landslides. Environmental 
movements: Chipko,  Silent valley, Apikko, Salumarada 
Thimmakka.  Environmental ethics: Role of Indian and 
other religions and cultures in environmental conservation 
Environmental communication and public awareness, case 
studies (Solar energy park of Karnataka). 
 
 
 
6 
Unit 8 Field work 5 
155  
Reference 
Carson, R. (2002). Silent Spring. Houghton Mifflin Harcourt. 
Gadgil, M., & Guha, R. (1993). This Fissured Land: An Ecological History 
of India. Univ. of California Press. 
Gleeson, B. and Low, N. (eds.) (1999). Global Ethics and Environment, 
London,Routledge. 
Glejck, P. H. (1993). Water in Crisis. Pacific Institute for Studies in 
Dev., Environment  &  Security.  Stockholm  Env.  Institute,  Oxford 
Univ. Press. 
Groom,  Martha  J.,  Gary  K.  Meffe,  and  Carl  Ronald  Carroll.  (2006). 
Principles of Conservation Biology. Sunderland: Sinauer 
Associates. 
Grumbine,  R.  Edward,  and  Pandit,  M.K.  (2013).  Threats  from  India's 
Himalayadams. Science, 339: 36-37. 
McCully, P. (1996). Rivers no more: the environmental effects of dams 
(pp. 29-64). Zed Books. 
McNeill,   John   R.   (2000).   Something   New   Under   the   Sun:   An 
EnvironmentalHistory of the Twentieth Century. 
Nandini, N. (2019). A text book on Environmental Studies (AECC). Sapna 
BookHouse, Bengaluru. 
Odum, E.P., Odum, H.T. & Andrews, J. (1971). Fundamentals of 
Ecology. Philadelphia: Saunders. 
Pepper,  I.L,  Gerba,  C.P.  &  Brusseau,  M.L.  (2011).  Environmental  and 
PollutionScience. Academic Press. 
Rao, M.N. & Datta, A.K. (1987). Waste Water Treatment. Oxford and 
IBHPublishing Co. Pvt. Ltd. 
Raven,  P.H.,  Hassenzahl,  D.M.  &  Berg,  L.R.  (2012).  Environment.  8th 
edition. JohnWiley & Sons. 
Rosencranz, A., Divan, S., & Noble, M. L. (2001). Environmental law and 
policy inIndia. Tripathi 1992. 
Sengupta, R. (2003). Ecology and economics: An approach to 
sustainabledevelopment. OUP. 
Singh, J.S., Singh, S.P. and Gupta, S.R. (2014). Ecology, Environmental 
Science andConservation. S. Chand Publishing, New Delhi. 
Sodhi, N.S., Gibson, L. & Raven, P.H. (eds). (2013). Conservation 
Biology: Voicesfrom the Tropics. John Wiley & Sons. 
Thapar, V. (1998). Land of the Tiger: A Natural History of the Indian 
Subcontinent. 
Warren, C. E. (1971). Biology and Water Pollution Control. WB Saunders. 
Wilson, E. O. (2006). The Creation: An appeal to save life on earth. 
New York:Norton. 
World Commission on Environment and Development. (1987). Our 
CommonFuture. Oxford University Press. 
 
161 
 
 
 
 
 
BANGALORE UNIVERSITY 
 
 
Master of Commerce  
M.Com (Degree) Regular  
(CBCS – Semester Scheme)  
New Syllabus: 2020-21 
 
(Revised Syllabus as on BOS held on 11th December 2020) 
Chairperson – BOS 
Prof. R. Sarvamangala 
 
 
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE 
JNANABHARATHI CAMPUS, 
BENGALURU - 560056
172 
 
REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO MASTER OF COMMERCE (M.Com.) COURSE UNDER 
CBCS SYSTEM FROM 2020-21 ONWARDS  
 
1. Objective: 
 
The broad objective of the Master of Commerce course is to impart to the Students, 
professional education and train ing in various aspects of business and its environment and 
provide them with opportunities to develop managerial and analytical skills in order to meet 
the challenges of business at the national and global level. The platform will also enrich the 
students to cope up with recent changes in business world. 
 
2. Eligibility for Admission: 
  
A candidate who has passed the B.Com./B.B.A./BMS Degree examination of this 
University or of any other University recognized as equivalent thereto and has secured not less 
than 50% of the marks in the aggregate in all the Commerce subjects of Business Education in 
all the years shall be eligible for admission to the course. In case of SC/ST/CAT-1 students and 
PWD Students, there will be relaxation of 5% in the minimum required percentage of marks. 
 
3. Duration of the Course: 
 
The course of study for M.Com., degree shall extend over a period of two years divided 
into 4 (four) semesters. Each Semester will be of 16 weeks or more duration with a minimum 
of 90 actual working days.  
 
4. Scheme of Instruction: 
 
1. In each semester there will be six to seven papers (including practicals) 
2. There will be 24 to 27 contact hours per week. This includes practicals. 
 
5. Attendance: 
 
  Each course (theory/practical) shall be treated as an independent unit f or the purpose of 
attendance. A student shall attend a minimum of 75% of the total instruction hours in a course 
(theory/practical) including tutorials and seminars in each semester. There shall be no 
provision for condonation of shortage of attendance and  a student who fails to secure 75% 
attendance in a course, shall be required to repeat that semester. 
 
   6.  Medium of Instruction: 
 
The medium of instruction shall be English. However, a candidate will be permitted to 
write the examination either in English or in Kannada.  
 
    7.  Registering for the Examination: 
 
A candidate shall register for all the papers of a semester when he appears for the 
examination of that semester for the first time. 
 
 
 
 
 
183 
 
    8.  Scheme of Examination: 
 
8.1  There shall be a University examination at the end of each semester. The maximum marks 
for the university examination in each paper shall be 100 as shown below: 
 
 
Particulars Course Duration Internal 
Assessment 
 
Theory 
Examination 
Total 
Marks 
Subject 
without 
Practicals 
M.Com 2 years, 
(4 Semesters) 30 70 100 
 
8.2 For subjects having practical examination (Advanced Research Methodology) theory 
examination will remain for 70 Marks, but in the place of Internal Assessment, Practical 
examination will be conducted, the marks allotment is as follows: 
 End Semester Practical Examination 10 Marks 
 Record                                                10 Marks 
 Viva-Voce Examination                      05 Marks 
 Attendance                                          05 Marks 
Total Marks                                         30 Marks 
8.3 Each semester will normally have six (Hardcore) and one (soft core) paper and each shall 
be for 100 marks. 
 
8.4 (i) The composition of theory and internal assessment marks for each paper will be 70 and 
30 respectively.   
ii. Duration of examination per theory paper of 70 marks shall be for 3 hours, for practicals 
it will be 11/2 (one and half) hours for each batch. 
 
iii. Practical records will be evaluated as part of the practical examination. 
 
iv. In case of practical examinations, students will be assessed on the basis of knowledge of 
processes, skills operations involved, results/calculations and reporting. 
 
v. Practical examination will be conducted by the Board of Examiners with Pre -Approved 
Panel of Examiners.  
   
8.5  Every theory paper shall ordinarily consist of two/three sections, developed to test 
conceptual skills, understanding skills, comprehension skills, articulation, and application 
skills in the question paper's composition in examinations. 
  
8.6 (i) In case of the ory papers the various components of internal assessment will be as 
follows: 
a) Assignment – 5 Marks  
b) Attendance – 5 marks (75% => 80% - 1 Mark, 80% > 85% - 2 Marks, 85% > 
90% - 3 Marks, 90% to 95% - 4 Marks, 95% => 5 Marks)  
c) Internal Test – 20 Marks 
(The test shall be for 1 1/2 - hour duration carrying 40 marks. The marks scored by the candidate 
shall be later reduced to 20 marks). 
  
194 
 
(ii) The Departmental Council / College / Centre shall notify in the first week of each 
semester, scheme of internal assessme nt, containing the details of tests, assignments, 
and seminars. 
 
(iii) Co -ordination Committee: In order to monitor IA tests there shall be Co -ordination 
Committee consisting of the following: 
1. Chairman BOS: Chairman  
2. Two Senior Faculty Members 
3. Two members from affiliated colleges as recommended by the BOS 
4. For Advanced Research Methodology  Subject, A Viva -Voce and Practical Exam 
for 30 marks will be conducted by the Board of Examiners.  
 
(iv) At least one week prior to the last working day, I.A. marks secure d by the candidates 
shall be displayed on the notice board. 
 
(v) The Departmental Council / College / Centre may decide to give test/seminar to 
candidates who absent   themselves for the above, only if the Council is convinced that 
the absence of the candi date is on valid grounds. However, the Council will allow the 
candidate to avail of this provision within the duration of that semester. 
 
(vi) The statement of internal assessment shall be sent to the Registrar (Evaluation) one 
week prior to the commencement of that particular semester examination. 
 
8.5 Question Paper Pattern:  
Section – A: 
Answer any Seven Questions out of Ten. Each Question Carries Two Marks (7x2=14) 
 
Section – B: 
Answer any Four Questions out of Six. Each Question Carries Five Marks (4x5=20) 
 
Section – C: 
Answer any Two Questions out of Four. Each Question Carries Twelve Marks (2x12=24) 
 
Section – D: (Compulsory Skill-based Question on Subject / Paper) 
Skill-based Question     (1x12=12) 
 
8.6.a MOOC Course & Certification Programme: 
 
A. The student has to undergo a certification course in any MOOC platform such as 
SWAYAM, NPTEL, AICTE, CEC of 8 Weeks / 12 Weeks / 16 Weeks Programme at the 
beginning of the 1st semester, submit the certificate at the end of 2nd Semester examinations, 
which is compulsory. 
B. Certification Programme: The student must undergo a Skill -based Training 
Certification Course from FKCCI / MSME / SME / KSSIC / KASSIA / BCIC and submit the 
certificate within 3rd Semester examinations to the Head of the department of PG St udies. The 
allotment of the skill -based training program is at the beginning of the 3rd semester, and proper 
time allocation in the college timetable. 
 
 
 
 
205 
 
8.6.b Industrial Visit 
Note: During 3rd Semester Compulsorily Students should undergo Industrial Visit to enhance the 
Practical Knowledge and Industrial Visit Report should be prepared and Submitted to the College. 
 
8.6.c Dissertation: 
 
Each student will choose business research project/live business problem in a business 
organization, Institution or Industry, and prepare a dissertation report.  He/she will formulate it as a 
research/consultancy problem, work under the guidance of a faculty member on it during IV 
semester and submit a report. The report will be evaluated for 70 marks. Project Dissertation 
guidance for a faculty member will involve a workload of 4 hours per week in a semester. 
Dissertation guidance of 8 students by a faculty member will be equivalent to the teaching of one 
paper per semester. Viva-voce examination will be conducted for 30 marks by BOE. 
 
The Research Supervisor should have a Ph.D. degree / a minimum of 10 Years of Research 
Experience with atleast 10 Publications in UGC Recognized Journals. 
 
9. Board of Examiners and Valuation of Answer Scripts: 
 
9.1 There shall be a Board of Examiners for scrutinizing and approving the question papers and 
scheme of valuation. 
 
9.2  About 50% of the examiners appointed for setting of question papers and valuation work 
in each semester shall be external. 
 
9.3 Each written paper shall be valued by one internal examiner and one external examiner.  
 
9.4 If the difference in marks between two valuation is more than 15%, the Chairman, BOE 
shall arrange for third valuation by examiners from the approved panel of examiners. 
 
9.5 In case of two valuations, the average of the tw o valuations and if there are three 
valuations, the average of the nearest two valuations shall be taken for declaring results. 
The candidates not satisfied with the results may apply for photocopies of the answer 
scripts and / or challenge valuation (If University Regulations Permits). 
 
10. Classification of Successful candidates: 
  
 Minimum for a pass in each paper shall be 40% in Semester paper and 50% in aggregate of 
all the papers in that semester.  
 
 The results of successful candidates at the end of each  semester shall be declared on the 
basis of Percentage of Aggregate Marks and in terms of Grade Point Average (GPA) and alpha – 
sign grade. The results at the end of the fourth semester shall also be classified on the basis of 
Percentage of Aggregate Marks and on the basis of the Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) 
obtained in all the four semesters and the corresponding overall alpha – sign grade. An eight-point 
grading system, alpha – sign grade as described below shall be adopted. 
 
First Class with Distinction         70% and above (A+, A++ or O) 
First Class      60% and above but less than 70% (A) 
High Second Class     55% and above but less than 60% (B+) 
Second Class      50% and above but less than 55% (B) 
Pass Class      40% and above but less than 50% (C) 
216 
 
 
 
 
Eight Point Alpha – Sign Grading Scale: 
Grade Point Average <4 4-<5 5-<5.5 5.5-<6 6-<7 7-<8 8-<9 9-10 
Alpha-Sign Grade: D C B B+ A A+ A++ O 
The Grade Point Average (GPA) in a Semester and the Cumulative Grade Point Average 
(CGPA) at the end of fourth semester shall be computed as follows: 
Computation of Grade Point Average (GPA):  
The grade points (GP) in a course shall be assigned based on the basis of actual marks scored 
in that course as per the table below. They shall be generally percentag es divided by 10. The Grade 
Point Weights (GPW) shall then be calculated as the product of the grade points earned in the 
course and the credits for the course. The total GPW for a semester is obtained by adding the GPW 
of all the courses of the semester. 
ILLUSTRATION 1 (26 Credits) 
Papers P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 P7 Total 
Max. marks 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 700 
% Marks Obtained 77 73 58 76 64 66 82 496 
Grade Points Earned (G.P.) 7.7 7.3 5.8 7.6 6.4 6.6 8.2 - 
Credits for the Course (C) 4 4 4 4 4 4 2 26 
Total GPW = GP x C 30.8 29.2 23.2 30.4 25.6 26.4 16.4 182 
Semester Aggregate Marks : 496 / 700 = 70.86% 
Classification of Result :        First Class with Distinction 
The GPA shall then be computed by dividing the total GPW of all the courses of study by the  total 
credits for the semester, GPA = Total GPW / Total Credits = 182 / 26   =   7.0  
           Semester Alpha Sign Grade: A+ 
ILLUSTRATION 2 (24 Credits) 
Papers P1 P2 P3 P4 P5 P6 Total 
Max. marks 100 100 100 100 100 100 600 
% Marks Obtained 67 73 78 76 84 88 466 
Grade Points Earned (G.P.) 6.7 7.3 7.8 7.6 8.4 8.8 - 
Credits for the Paper 4 4 4 4 4 4 24 
Total GPW = GP x C  26.8 29.2 31.2 30.4 33.6 35.2 186.4 
       Semester Aggregate Marks: 466 / 600 = 77.67% 
Classification of Result:  First Class with Distinction 
              GPA  =  Total GPW / Total Credits   = 186.4 / 24   =   7.77   
                   Semester Alpha Sign Grade: A++ 
 
227 
 
 
11. Calculation of Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA):  
The Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) at the end of the fourth semester shall be calculated 
as the weighted average of the semester GPW.  The CGPA is obtained by dividing the total of 
GPW of all the four semesters by the total credits for the programme. 
ILLUSTRATION I 
Semester I II III IV Total 
Total Marks per Semester 700 700 600 600 2600 
 Total Marks Secured 496 560 466 510 2032 
Semester Alpha Sign Grade A+ A++ A+ A++ - 
Semester GPA 7.0 8.0 7.77 8.5 - 
Semester Credits  26 26 24 24 100 
Semester GPW  182 208 186.5 204 822.9 
Aggregate Percentage of Marks = 2032 / 2600 = 78.15 % 
Classification of Result: First Class with Distinction 
   Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) 
    = Total of Semester GPW / Total Credits for the programme = 780.5 /100 = 7.805      
  Programme Alpha Sign Grade: A++ 
These are the s ample illustrations of computing semester grade point averages and cumulative 
grade point average and the alpha – sign grades assigned.  
 
12.  MINIMUM FOR A PASS: 
12.1 A candidate shall be declared to have passed the PG program if he/she secures at least a  CGPA 
of 4.0 (Course Alpha-Sign Grade C) in the aggregate of both internal assessment and semester 
end examination marks put together in each unit such as Theory Papers / Practical’s / Project 
Work / Dissertation / Viva-Voce. 
12.2 The candidates who pass a ll the semester examinations in the first attempts are eligible for 
ranks provided they secure at least CGPA of 6.0 (or Alpha-Sign Grade A).  
 
12.3 The results of the candidates who have passed the fourth semester examination but not passed 
the lower semes ter examinations shall be declared as NCL (Not Completed Lower semester 
examinations). Such candidates shall be eligible for the degree only after completion of all the 
lower semester examinations. 
12.4   A candidate who passes the semester examinations in  parts is eligible for only Class / CGPA 
and Alpha-Sign Grade but not for ranking. 
 
12.5     There shall be no minimum in respect of internal assessment.  
However minimum pass in each paper shall be 40% in semester end exam (25 Marks out of 70 
Marks) and 50% aggregate of all papers in that semester including practical paper. 
 
12.6 A Candidate who fails in any of the unit / dissertation / viva -voce shall reappear in that unit / 
dissertation / viva-voce and pass the examination subsequently. 
 
13.   CARRY OVER PROVISION: Candidates who fail in a lower semester examination may go to 
the higher semesters and take the examinations.  
 
238 
 
 
 
14.   REJECTION OF RESULTS: 
i.   A candidate who fails in one or more papers of a semester may be permitted to reject the result 
of the whole examination of that semester.  Rejection of result paper wise shall not be 
permitted. A candidate who rejects the results shall appear for the examination of that 
semester in the subsequent examination. 
 
ii.  Rejection shall be exercised only o nce in each semester and the rejection once exercised shall 
not be revoked.  
 
iii. Application for rejection along with payment of the prescribed fee shall be submitted to the 
Registrar (Evaluation) through the department/college together with the original  statement of 
marks within 30 days from the date of publication of the result. 
 
iv. A candidate who rejects the result is eligible for only class and not for ranking. 
 
15. IMPROVEMENT OF RESULTS: 
i)  A candidate who has passed in all the papers of a semest er may be permitted to improve the 
result by reappearing for the whole examination of that semester. 
 
ii)   The reappearance could be permitted twice during double the period without restricting it to 
the subsequent examination only. The regulation governi ng maximum period for completing 
various degree/ diploma programme notified by the University from time to time shall be 
applicable for improvement of results also.  
 
iii)  The student could be permitted to apply for the improvement examination 45 days in advance 
of the pertinent semester examination whenever held. 
 
iv)  If the candidate passes in all the subjects in reappearance, higher of the two aggregate marks 
secured by the candidate shall be awarded for that semester. In case the candidate fails in th e 
reappearance, candidate shall retain the first appearance result.   
 
v)  A candidate who has appeared for improvement is eligible for class only and not for ranking. 
Internal assessment marks shall be shown separately in the marks card. A candidate who h as 
rejected the result or who, having failed, takes the examination again or who has appeared for 
improvement shall retain the internal assessment marks already obtained. 
 
A candidate who fails in any of the semester examinations may be permitted to take t he 
examinations again at a subsequent appearance as per the syllabus and scheme of examination 
in vogue at the time the candidate took the examination for the first time.  This facility shall be 
limited to the following two years. 
 
16.  POWER TO REMOVE DIFFICULTIES 
i) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of these regulations, the Vice -
Chancellor may by order make such provisions not inconsistent with the Act, Statutes, 
Ordinances or other Regulations, as appears to be necessary or expedi ent to remove the 
difficulty. 
 
249 
 
ii) Every order made under this rule shall be subject to ratification by the Appropriate University 
Authorities. 
 
17. UPDATION OF SYLLABUS - The BOS has to revise the syllabus from time to time based on 
current trends and updatio ns where ever it is necessary. The suggestions of faculties of commerce, 
considered for revision and updation of the syllabus with prior approval of BOS - PG Commerce, 
Faculty of Commerce and the Academic Council of the University.  
 
2510 
 
APPENDIX “A” 
M.Com (MASTER OF COMMERCE) - COURSE MATRIX 
 
I SEMESTER M.Com. (MASTER OF COMMERCE) 
Paper 
Code Subjects Instruction 
Hrs/Week 
Duration 
of Exam 
(Hrs) 
Marks 
Credits 
IA Exam Total 
1.1 Monetary System 4 3 30 70 100 4 
1.2 International Business Environment 4 3 30 70 100 4 
1.3 Principles and Practices of Business 
Decisions 4 3 30 70 100 4 
1.4 Information Technology for Business 4 3 30 70 100 4 
1.5 Managerial Finance 4 3 30 70 100 4 
1.6 Global Talent Management  4 3 30 70 100 4 
1.7 SOFT CORE  
Corporate Communication Skills 3 3 30 70 100 2 
I SEMESTER TOTAL OF CREDITS   26 
 
Note: The student has to undergo a certification course in any MOOC platform such as SWAYAM, 
NPTEL, AICTE, CEC of 8 Weeks / 12 Weeks / 16 Weeks Programme at the beginning of the 1st 
semester submit the certificate at the end of 2nd Semester examinations, which is compulsory. 
 
II SEMESTER M.Com. (MASTER OF COMMERCE) 
Paper  
Code Subjects Instruction 
Hrs/Week 
Duration 
of Exam 
(Hrs) 
Marks 
Credits 
IA Exam Total 
2.1 Modern Indian Banking  4 3 30 70 100 4 
2.2 Risk Management & Derivatives  4 3 30 70 100 4 
2.3 Advanced Research Methodology 4 3 30 
(P*) 70 100 4 
2.4 Digital Marketing 4 3 30 70 100 4 
2.5 Emerging Trends in Entrepreneurship 4 3 30 70 100 4 
2.6 Indian Ethos and Leadership 4 3 30 70 100 4 
2.7 SOFT CORE  
Artificial and Business Intelligence 3 3 30 70 100 2 
II SEMESTER TOTAL OF CREDITS   26 
 
Note: Certification Programme: The student must undergo a Skill -based Training Certification Course 
from FKCCI / MSME / SME / KSSIC / KASSIA / BCIC and submit the certificate within 3rd 
Semester examinations to the Head of the department of PG Studies. The allotment of the skill -based 
training program is at the beginning of the 3rd semester, and proper time allocation in the college 
timetable. 
*Practical Examination will be conducted by the Board of Examiners. 
2611 
 
 
 
 
 
III SEMESTER M.Com. (MASTER OF COMMERCE) 
 
GROUP– I: ACCOUNTING & TAXATION 
 
Paper 
Code Subjects Instruction 
Hrs/Week 
Duration 
of Exam 
(Hrs) 
Marks 
Credits 
IA Exam Total 
3.1 Intellectual Property Rights  4 3 30 70 100 4 
3.2 Logistics and Supply Chain 
Management  4 3 30 70 100 4 
3.3 Corporate  Reporting  Practices-I 4 3 30 70 100 4 
3.4 Strategic Cost Management – I 4 3 30 70 100 4 
3.5 Corporate Tax Planning  4 3 30 70 100 4 
3.6 Open Elective 4 3 30 70 100 4 
III SEMESTER TOTAL OF CREDITS   24 
 
 
Note: During 3 rd Semester Compulsorily Students should undergo Industrial Visit to 
enhance the Practical Knowledge and Industrial Visit Report should be prepared and Submitted 
to the College. 
 
 
III SEMESTER M.Com. (MASTER OF COMMERCE) 
 
GROUP– I: FINANCE & BANKING 
 
Paper 
Code Subjects Instruction 
Hrs/Week 
Duration 
of Exam 
(Hrs) 
Marks 
Credits 
IA Exam Total 
3.1 Intellectual Property Rights  4 3 30 70 100 4 
3.2 Logistics and Supply Chain 
Management 4 3 30 70 100 4 
3.3 Financial Markets & Services  4 3 30 70 100 4 
3.4 Financial Planning 4 3 30 70 100 4 
3.5 Innovation in Banking & Technology  4 3 30 70 100 4 
3.6 Open Elective 4 3 30 70 100 4 
III SEMESTER TOTAL OF CREDITS   24 
 
Note: During 3 rd Semester Compulsorily Students should undergo Industrial Visit to 
enhance the Practical Knowledge and Industrial Visit Report should be prepared and Submitted 
to the College. 
 
2712 
 
 
 
 
IV SEMESTER M.Com. (MASTER OF COMMERCE) 
 
GROUP– II: ACCOUNTING & TAXATION 
  
 
Paper 
Code Subjects Instruction 
Hrs/Week 
Duration 
of Exam 
(Hrs) 
Marks 
Credits 
IA Exam Total 
4.1 Business Analytics  4 3 30 70 100 4 
4.2 Forensic Accounting & Auditing  4 3 30 70 100 4 
4.3 Corporate  Reporting  Practices-II 4 3 30 70 100 4 
4.4 Strategic Cost Management - II  4 3 30 70 100 4 
4.5 Customs Duty and GST 4 3 30 70 100 4 
4.6 Dissertation / Project 4 -- 
Viva -
Voce 
30 
70 100 4 
IV SEMESTER TOTAL OF CREDITS   24 
 
 
IV SEMESTER M.Com. (MASTER OF COMMERCE) 
 
GROUP– II: FINANCE & BANKING 
 
Paper 
Code Subjects Instruction 
Hrs/Week 
Duration 
of Exam 
(Hrs) 
Marks 
Credits 
IA Exam Total 
4.1 Business Analytics  4 3 30 70 100 4 
4.2 Forensic Accounting & Auditing  4 3 30 70 100 4 
4.3 Forex Management 4 3 30 70 100 4 
4.4 Security Analysis & Portfolio 
Management  4 3 30 70 100 4 
4.5 Strategies for Banking Risk and 
Marketing Management 4 3 30 70 100 4 
4.6 Dissertation / Project 4 -- 
Viva -
Voce 
30 
70 100 4 
IV SEMESTER TOTAL OF CREDITS   24 
 
Total Credits – M.Com. Programme 
 
1st Semester M.Com.     : 26 Credits 
2nd Semester M.Com.    : 26 Credits 
3rd Semester M.Com.    : 24 Credits 
4th Semester M.Com.     : 24 Credits 
Total Credits      : 100 Credits 
2813 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course:  1.1 MONETARY SYSTEM 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of the course, the Students  will be able to 
understand the Principles & Systems of Note Issue present in India and other countries. The 
contents will expose students to the depth of the Domestic and International Monetary system 
and practices in general. 
Syllabus: 
Module 1: Money:  Introduction & Invention of Money, Meaning, Definition, Evolution: Stages 
(Barter System to Bitcoin), Characteristics, Functions, Approaches, Types of Money, Role of 
Money, Importance of Money, Evils of Money, Money and Near Money, Time Value of Money, 
Circular Flow of Money – Sectors. Theories of Value of Money - Quantity Theory of Money: 
Fisher's Transaction Approach & Cambridge Cash Balance Theory, Income Theory of Money, 
Liquidity Theory of Money, Friedman's Restatement of the Quantity Theory of Money , 
Keynesian Theory of Money, Modern Monetary Theory. 
Module 2: Monetary Standards:  Meaning & Definition, History, Gresham’s Law, Types of 
Monetary Standards: Monometalism, Bimetallism, Paper Currency and Virtual Currency: 
Features, Types, Reforms, Pros &  Cons. Gold Standard: Meaning, Types, Features, Functions, 
Pros & Cons, Domestic and International Gold Standards, Working of Gold Standard: 
Conditions, Qualities of Good Monetary System. Introduction to Paper Currency Standard: 
Meaning & Definition, Princ iples of Note Issue, Right of Note Issue, Method of Note Issue, 
Essentials of Sound Currency System. Introduction to SDR or Paper Gold: Meaning & 
Definition, Features, Role of SDR, Working of SDR, Basket of Currencies, IMF Quota - SDR, SDR 
allocations & Interest Rate. 
Module 3: International Monetary System:  Meaning & Definition, History, Evolution - 
Bimetallism before 1875, Classical Gold Standard 1876 – 1913, Interwar Period 1914 – 1944, 
Bretton Woods System 1945 – 1973 (IMF & World Bank), Flexible Exchange Rate Regime (1972 to 
Present), Smithsonian Agreement, Triffin's Paradox, Nixon Shock; Characteristics & Importance. 
Introduction to Flexible Exchange Rate Regime: Meaning & Definition, Characteristics, 
Functions, Pros & Cons of Fixed & Flexible Exchang e Rate Regime, Fixed v/s Flexible Exchange 
Rate Regime, Current Exchange Rate Regime and Exchange Rate Management in India. 
Module 4 : International Financial System:  Meaning & Definition, International Financial 
System v/s International Monetary System, Evolution, Components of International Financial 
System. Introduction to International Financial Markets: Meaning & Definition, Participants, 
Elements, Forex Market, Euro Currency Market, Euro Bond Market, Depository Receipts - 
ADRs, GDRs & IDRs; Bond Market - Masala Bonds, Green Masala Bonds, Samurai Bond, Yankee 
Bond, Panda Bonds and others. 
Module 5:  Balance of Payment & Balance of Trade (BOP & BOT):  Introduction to BOP & 
BOT: Meaning & Definition, Features, Components, Structure of BOP, BOP v/s BOT, 
Equilibrium & Disequilibrium in BOP, Types and Causes of Disequilibrium in BOP, Methods to 
Correct Disequilibrium in BOP, Devaluation and Depreciation of Currency – Recent Trends. 
Capital Account & Current Account: Meaning, Structure, Convertibility, Capit al Account v/s 
Current Account. 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. K. N. Verma, Monetary System, Vishal Publishing Company 
2. P. Agarwal, International Financial Management, HPH 
3. V.K. Bhatta, International Financial Management Anmol publication Pvt. Ltd. New Delhi. 
4. K.K. Dewet, Modern Economic Theory, Shyam Lal chaintable Trust, Ramnagar, New 
Delhi. 
5. Apte P.G: International Financial Management, TMH 
2914 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
6. Lavi Maurice: International Finance, Mc Graw Hill 
7. Dr. P. C. Jain & Dr. S. S. Verma, Money and Financia l System, Sahitya Bhavan 
Publications 
8. L. Randall Wray, Modern Money Theory: A Primer on Macroeconomics for Sovereign 
Monetary Systems, Palgrave Macmillan. 
9. M C Vaish, Monetary Theory, Vikas Publishing 
10. Dr. S K Singh & Dr. Madhulika Singh, Applied Money and B anking, Sahitya Bhavan 
Publications. 
11. Robert E. Wright, NYU, Money and Banking , Saylor Foundation. 
 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
3015 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course: 1.2 INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of the course, the Students will be able to learn 
nature, scope and structure of Global Business Environment, and understand the influence of 
various environmental factors on global business operations.  
Syllabus: 
Module 1: International Business & Environment:  Importance, nature and scope of 
International business; Modes of entry into Int ernational Business; globalization process and 
managerial implications; multinational corporations and their involvement in global 
Business: Issues in foreign investments, technology transfer, pricing and regulations. 
Introduction to  Economic environment – political and regulatory environment – 
demographic environment – social, cultural and technological environment. 
Module 2: International Economic Environment:  Regional integration and trade blocks – 
Types of integration – theory of customs union, Europea n union – regional groupings – 
integration of developing countries – ASEAN , SAARC, SAPTA,  global commodity 
agreements – quota agreements – Cartels – Bi-lateral & Multi -lateral contracts – Economic 
institutions – International Monetary Funds (IMF) – World Bank, Asian Development Bank, 
UNCTAD, UNIDO, International Trade Centre, WTO, GATS, TRIM, TRIPS. 
Module 3 : International Trade and Investment Environment:  Government Influence on 
Trade: Trade in merchandise – Trade in services – Global sourcing – degree of dependence – 
balance of payments – trade and BOP of India. Cultural contacts of global management –
Understanding the role of culture – communicating across cultures – cross cultural 
negotiations and decision making. Types and significance of foreign inves tments – factors 
affecting global investment – growth and dispersion of FDI – cross border mergers and 
acquisitions – foreign investment in India – The New Policy – EURO/ADR issues – M & A – 
Indian companies going global. 
Module 4: Multi National Corporat ion: Definition and Meaning – Importance and 
dominance of MNCs – Code of conduct – MNCs in India Transnational Companies and 
Global Companies –Their nature,  Transfer of Technology – global competitiveness – 
indicators of competitiveness -competitive advanta ge of nations – Technology and Global 
competitiveness.  global Operations – Global supply chain management – global 
manufacturing strategies – factors affecting global HRM and staffing policy – global 
negotiations – global asset protection –Protection of IPRs. 
Module 5: Social Responsibilities and Ethics: Social Responsibilities and Ethics, MNE Social 
Responsibilities – philanthropic Responsibility, Ethical Responsibility, Legal Responsibility, 
Economic Responsibility, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, Cases. 
 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. P Subba Rao, International Business, Himalaya Publications 
2. O P Agarwal, International Business, Himalaya Publications 
3. Aswathappa. K., International Business, Tata McGraw Hill 
4. Darrell Mahoriy, etal, International Business, Longman. 
5. Charles W.L. Hill, International Business, McGraw – Hill. 
6. John D. Daniels, etal, International Business, Pearson Education. 
7. Don Ball and Wendell McCulloch, International Business, McGraw – Hill. 
8. A.V. Vedipurishwar, The Global CEO, Vision Books. 
9. Dr. Ansarul Haque, Dr. S. Porkodi, International Business Environment, Global 
Academic Publishers & Distributors, 2nd Edition, 2015 
10. J. Stewart BlackAnant K. Sundaram, The International Business Environment 1 st  
3116 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Edition, Pearson, 2015  
11. Aniket Shonak, International Business Environment, Straight Forward Publishers (P) 
Ltd., 2011  
12. Bennet, Roger, International Business, Financial Times, Pitman Publishing, London.  
13. Bhattacharya, B., Going International: Response Strategies of the Indian Sector, 
Wheeler Publishing, New Delhi.  
14. Czinkota, Michael R., et. al., International Business, the Dryden Press, Fortworth 
15. Hill, C., Cronk,T., & Wickramasekera, R. (2011). Global Business Today: An Asia 
Pacific Perspective. 2nd Edition. McGraw-Hill 
16. Danoes, John D. and Radebaugh, Lee H., International Business: Environment and 
Operations, Addison Wesley, Readings. 
17. HILL Charles W.L. (2011), International Business: Competing in the Global 
Marketplace (8/E.), McGraw-Hill 
 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
3217 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course:  1.3 PRINCIPLES AND PRACTICES OF BUSINESS DECISIONS 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: To familiarise students with key macro -economic variables and their 
behaviour, and enable them to critical ly evaluate different economies and to enable students to 
integrate macroeconomic analysis into business decisions. 
Syllabus: 
Module 1: Introduction to Economics: Introduction to economics, macroeconomics, and its 
interface with business and industry.  Nature and Scope of managerial economics. Objectives of 
the firm, Economic, Managerial and Behavioural theories of the firm. Resources and Goals of an 
economic systems, Perfect Market, Free market and Mixed Economy. National Income and 
product concept, comp utation of National Income and related aggregates, problems in 
computation of national income. Concept of GDP, GNP, NDP and NNP. 
Module 2 : Public Financial Policy : Public Finance branches – Principle of maximum social 
advantages – Sources of public revenue – canons of taxation – direct and indirect taxes – impact 
and incidence – effects of taxation on production, consumption and distribution side of economy 
– recent policy changes in direct and indirect – public expenditure – causes for growth – effects 
of public expenditure – public debt – sources of public borrowing – methods of debt redemption 
– debt trap - budget – types and deficit. 
Module 3: Demand Analysis & Consumer Choice:  Individual and market demand functions; 
Law of demand, determinants of dem and; Elasticity of demand – its meaning and importance; 
price elasticity, income elasticity and cross elasticity – Using elasticity in managerial decisions; 
numerical problems and case studies. Introduction to Consumer Choice, Sovereignty, Cardinal 
and ordinal utility approach, indifference approach, revealed preference and theory of consumer 
choice under risk; Demand estimation for major consumer durable and non -durable products; 
Demand forecasting techniques; numerical problems and case studies. 
Module 4 : Production Theory: Production function – production with one and two variable 
inputs, Stages of production; Economies of scale; Estimation of production function; cost theory 
and estimation; Economic value analysis; Short and long run cost functions – their nature, shape 
and inter-relationship; Law of returns to scale; numerical problems and case studies. 
Module 5 : Pricing Practices & Strategies : Determinants of pricing policy, pricing methods: 
Marginal Cost Pricing, Target Rate Pricing, Product Line Pri cing, administered pricing, 
competitive bidding, dual pricing, transfer pricing. Price discrimination: requirements, types 
and dumping strategies. Pricing over product life cycle: skimmed pricing, penetration pricing, 
product –line pricing and price leadership. Impact of pricing on business decisions. 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. M.L. Seth Monetary Economics, Vikas Publishing 
2. M.C. Vaish – Micro and Macro Economics, Vikas Publishing 
3. KPM Sundaram – Indian Economy, S. Chand Publishing 
4. Maheshwari K.L. & Varshney R.L – Managerial Economics, Sultan Chand & Sons 
5. M.L. Seth – Macro Economic Theory – Vikas Publishing 
6. I.C. Dhingra – Indian Economy, Sultan Chand & Sons. 
7. Suraj B. Gupta, Monetary Economics, S. Chand & Company. 
8. P.L Mehta; Managerial Economics, Sultan Chand & Sons, New Delhi.12 
9. 2R.L Varshney and K.L Maheshwari; Managerial Economics, Sultan Chand & Sons, Delhi. 
10. Karma Pal : Managerial Economics, Excel Books. 
3318 
 
 
 
11. H.L Ahuja; Business Economics, S. Chand & Company Ltd., New Delhi 
12. S.K. Chakapaborti, Macroeconomics, HPH 
13. Gupta G. S. - Macroeconomic theory- Tata Mc-Graw Hill publications 
14. Dr. M. Muniraju, Macro Ecnomics for Business Decisions, HPH,  
15. Samuelson,Paul – Economics, Tata Mc-Graw Hill publications 
16. Dornbush R & Fisher S – Macroeconomics – Tata Mc-Graw Hill publications 
17. Blanchard O. J & Stanley Fischer – Lectures on Macro -economics – Tata Mc Graw Hill 
publications 
18. Misra & Puri, Indian Economics, HPH 
19. Dwivedi D N – Managerial Economics – Vikas publications 
20. J. K. Bhagawathi – Economics of Underdevelo ped Countries – All India Traveler Book 
Seller Publishing Company. 
21. A. K. Agarwall – Indian Economics – Problems of Development and planning – D.K 
Publishers. 
22. V. K. R. V. Rao -  National  Income of India – 1950 to 1980 Sage Publishers 
23. Bimal Jalan – India’s Economic Crisis, Oxford, IBM. 
24. Rangarajan C. – Principles of Macro Economics, Tata McGraw Hill Pub co. 
25. Vaish M. C – Macro Economic Theory – Willey Eastern 
26. Jha. R – Contemporary Macroeconomic Theory and Policy 
27. Schultze C. L – National Income Analysis 
28. Bramhananda P R & V R Panchamukhi – Development process of Indian Economy 
Survey (Various issues) – Ministry of Finance Government of India Publications, New 
Delhi. 
29. Sheth M. L – Macroeconomic theory – S.Chand, New Delhi. 
30. Bhole. L.M, Financial Institutions and Markets, Tata McGraw Hill. 
31. Frank R.H: Principles of Macroeconomics, Tata McGraaw Hill. 
32. Colander: Macroeconomics TMH. 
33. Fischer and Blanchard: Lecturer and Macroeconomics PHI. 
34. Turnovsky: Methods of Macroeconomics Dynamis, PHI. 
 
 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
3419 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course: 1.4 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY FOR BUSINESS 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of  the course, the students will be able to 
understand E-Commerce Business Models, Security Threats & Protections as well as application 
of Technology in every corner of the business in the world. 
Syllabus: 
Module 1: Introduction to E -Commerce: Introduction, E-Commerce – Definition, History of E -
commerce, Online Extension of a BAM Model, Transition to E -Commerce in India, E-Commerce 
v/s Traditional Commerce, E - Commerce v/s E - Business.  Electronic Commerce – Cutting 
Edge Technologies, Strengths, Weakness , Opportunities and Challenges of E -Commerce, 
Components of E -Business, E -Commerce Business models – B2C, B2B, C2B, C2C, B2G, C2G, 
Brokerage, Advertising, Infomediary, Merchant, Manufacturer (Direct), Affiliate, Community, 
Subscription, Utility. Ecommerce Business Revenue Models & Types, Impact of E-Commerce on 
business, Successful Business Models in India. 
Module 2:  Hardware and Software for E -Business:  Web Servers – Browsers – Server Software 
– Web Authoring Tools - Database System - World Wide Web – Domain Name – Hardware 
requirements, Brief on Shopping Cart, Point of Sale, Wireless Payment Device , Strategies for 
Web Auction, Virtual Communities, Web Portal. Electronic Retailing and Malls. Electronic 
Shopping - Process, Electronic Catalogues, Interactive Advertising and Marketing. 
Module 3: Privacy & Technology : Introduction to Internet Security – Secure Transactions – 
Computer Monitoring – Privacy Issues – Privacy on the Internet – Cyber Crimes & Types, 
Recent Cyber Attacks, Major types of Security Pr oblems/Common Threats – E-Commerce and 
Security – Security for Internet Trading – Electronic Security Challenges. Introduction to 
Encryption: Elements & Methods of Encryption, Secret key, Private & Public key, Digital 
Signature, Digital Certificates. Moder n Cryptography: Types, Tools & Applications, VPNs, SSL 
Protocol, Firewalls. 
Module 4:  IT Act of 2000 (Amendment in 2008 & 2018):  Introduction to Cyber Laws, Evolution 
& Need of Cyber Laws, Internet Frauds, Features, Objectives, Applicability & Non -applicability, 
Sections of IT Act ((Amendment) Act, 2018.),  Section 43(A) (SPDI – Sensitive Personal Data),  
ISO 27001 guidelines, How to prevent Cyber Crimes?,  Some Pioneering Indian Case Studies, E -
Transition Challenges for Indian Companies. 
Module 5:  EDI:  Electronic Data Interchange (EDI): Meaning & Definition, History & Evolution, 
Uses, EDI Standards, EDI Working Concept, Implementation difficulties of EDI, Financial EDI, 
EDI and Internet, EDI services, ANSI X12 and EDIFACT. 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. Raydu – E Commerce, HPH  
2. Suman. M – E Commerc & Accounting - HPH  
3. Kalakota Ravi and A. B. Whinston : Frontiers of Electronic Commerce, Addison Wesley  
4. Watson R T : Electronic Commerce – the strategic perspective. The Dryden press  
5. Amrutha Gowry & Soundrajana, E – Business & Accounting, SHBP.  
6. C.S.V Murthy- E Commerce, HPH  
7. Agarwala K.N and Deeksha Ararwala: Business on the Net – Whats and Hows of E -
Commerce  
8. P. Diwan / S. Sharma – E – Commerce  
3520 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9. Srivatsava: E.R.P, I.K. International Publishers  
10. Bharat Bhasker, Electronic Commerce – Frame work technologies and Applications, 3 rd 
Edition. Tata McGraw-Hill Publications. 
11. Kamlesh K. Bajaj and Debjani Nag, Ecommerce - the cutting edge of Business, Tata 
McGraw-Hill Publications. 
12. Kalakota et al, Frontiers of Electronic Commerce, Addison Wesley. 
13. E- Commerce Strategies, Technology and applications (David) Tata McGraw-Hill 
14. Introduction to E-commerce (Jeffrey) Tata- McGraw-Hill 
15. E-Business and Commerce- Strategic Thinking and Practice (Brahm) Biztantra. 
16. Deepak Bharihoke- “Fundamentals of Information Technology”. 
 
 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
3621 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course: 1.5 MANAGERIAL FINANCE 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of the course, the Students will be able to 
understand the advanced tools and techniques used in evaluating projects for financial 
decisions. The theories on financial manageme nt concepts will help the students to attain a 
greater anatomy on effective financial decision making in business.  
Syllabus: 
Module 1: Introduction to Finance: Introduction to Finance: Concept, Meaning, Principles & 
Types of Finance, Functions of Financ e, Financing Decisions, Factors influencing Financial 
Decisions, Objectives of Corporate Financial Decisions. Introduction to Financial Management, 
Meaning & Definition, Evolution, Scope, Methods, Importance, Functional areas of Modern 
Financial Management , Financial Management Process . Planning and Policy; Approaches  to 
Capital Structure : Net Income Approach, Net Operating Income Approach, The Traditional 
approach, Modigliani & Miller Approach - Concept & Problems. Optimal Capital Structure: 
Meaning & Conc ept, Trade -Off-Theory v/s Pecking Order Theory, EBIT – EPS Approach – 
Concept & Problems. 
Module 2: Investment Decisions:  Introduction to Investment Decisions: Meaning, Need and 
Factors, Efficient Investment Analysis. Introduction to Capital Budgeting Dec isions – Meaning, 
Features, Process and Factors, Capital Budgeting Techniques: Traditional and Modern 
Techniques, Varying Opportunity Cost of Capital, NPV v/s IRR, Incremental IRR, Modified 
Internal Rate of Return (MIRR) – Concept, Evaluation Criteria & Pr oblems, Fisher's Rate and 
Aggregate Capital Needs in Investment Decisions, Project Selection under Capital Rationing: 
Meaning, Types, Pros & Cons, Problems on Divisible & Indivisible Projects, Multi-Period Capital 
Rationing, Capital Budgeting under Inflationary Conditions. 
Module 3: Risk Analysis in Capital Budget ing: Risk Analysis in Capital Budgeting – Meaning, 
Analysis of Risk and Uncertainty, Sources and Perspectives of Risk, Measurement of Risk, 
Nature of Risk in Capital Budgeting Decisions, Technique s for Risk Analysis:  Risk Adjusted 
Discount Rate, Certainty Equivalent Method, Probability Method, Sensitivity Analysis, Scenario 
Analysis, Simulation Analysis, Hiller Model, Break -Even Analysis, Corporate Risk Analysis, 
Decision Tree Analysis – Sequential Investment Decisions, Market Risk Analysis – Concept & 
Problems, Backward Induction Method, Utility Theory and Capital Budgeting. 
Module 4 : Corporate Restructuring: Introduction to Corporate Restructuring: Mergers, 
Acquisitions, Takeovers, Spinoff, Syne rgies, Strategic Alliance, Joint Venture, Leveraged 
Buyouts, Management Buyouts (MBO) & Buy-in (MBI), Franchising, Intellectual Property Rights 
(IPRs), Sell-off, Demerger, Disinvestment v/s Divestment, Slump Sale, Reverse Merger, Equity 
Carveout – Concept & Types. Valuation under M&A: Discounted Cash Flow Method (DCF), 
Price-Earnings Ratio (P/E Ratio), EPS Approach, Enterprise -Value-to-Sales Ratio (EV/Sales), 
Replacement Cost Method – Concept & Problems. 
Module 5:  Dividend & Working Capital Decisions: Introduction to Dividend Decisions,  
Meaning & Definition, Forms of Dividend, Types of Dividend Policy, Significance of Dividend, 
Impact of Dividend Policy on Company, Factors affecting Dividend Policy, Dividend Decision 
Theories – Walter’s Model, Gordon’s Mod el, MM Theory – Concept, Assumptions, Formula, 
Criticisms & Problems. Introduction to Working Capital, Meaning & Definition, Types of 
Working Capital, Significance of Adequate Working Capital – Evils of Excess or Inadequate 
Working Capital – Determinants of Working Capital – Sources of Working Capital, Techniques 
3722 
 
for managing Working Capital – Concept & Problems. 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. G. Sudarsana Reddy, Financial Management, HPH. 
2. Khan & Jain, Financial Management, Tata McGraw Hill. 
3. I.M. Pandey, Financial Management, Viaks Publishing House 
4. Prasanna Chandra, Financial Management, Theory and Practice, Tata McGraw Hill 
5. Schall & Haley, Financial Management, McGraw Hill, New york. 
6. Sudhindra Bhat, Financial Management: Principles and Practice, Excel Books India 
7. Patel Bhavesh, Fundamentals of Financial Management, Vikas Publications 
8. Sharan, Fundamentals of Financial Management, Pearson Education India 
9. Shri. Narendra Singh, Advanced Financial Management, HPH. 
10. Dr. B. G. Sathya Prasad & M. N. Arora, Management Accounting and Financial 
Management, HPH. 
 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
3823 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course: 1.6 GLOBAL TALENT MANAGEMENT  
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of the course, the students will be able to 
understand the core concepts of Talent management and application of Talent management in 
various multi-disciplinary areas.  
Syllabus: 
Module 1:.Introduction to Talent Management:  Introduction, Talent Management – Overview, 
Talent Management – History, Scope of Talent Management, Need of Talent Management, Key 
Processes of Talent Management, Talent vs knowledge people, Source of Tale nt Management, 
Consequences of Failure in Managing Talent, Tools for Managing Talent, Building Blocks of 
Effective Talent Management System, Life Cycle of Talent Management ,Role of HR in Talent 
Management, Compensation and reward strategies for Effective Talent Management , Human 
Capital- Meaning, Definition and Characteristics. 
Module 2:  Talent Planning and Acquisition:  
Talent Planning: Objectives of Talent Planning, Steps in Strategic Talent Planning, Succession 
Planning Program, Innovative talent plan ning, Current Industry Practices for Strategic Talent 
Planning, Ensuring Leadership 
Talent Acquisition:  Introduction, Talent Acquisition, Recruiting Process, Strategic Trends in 
Talent Acquisition, Talent acquisition management solutions 
Module 3:  Talent Engagement and Retention:  
Introduction, Concept of Talent Engagement, Retention, Employee Engagement and Retention, 
the Race for Talent: Retaining and Engaging Workers, Best Practices for Talent Engagement, 
Improving Employee Retention 
Module4: Informat ion Technology  and HR Analytics  in Talent  
Management:  Introduction, Role of Information Technology in Talent Management 
Systems, Talent Management Information System, Creating Business Value through 
Information Technology, Five Steps to a Talent Management  Information Strategy, HR 
Analytics for TM Processes, Design Development through Rapid Prototyping and Scaling, 
Implementation and Maintenance, Audit and Update . 
Module 5:   Contemporary  Talent  Management  Issues,  Challenges,  Best  Practices  and 
Innovation:  Introduction, Organisational Issues, Talent Management Challenges, Best 
Practices of Talent Management, Talent Management in India , AI applications in Human 
Resource Management Practices, E -Frauds in Talent Acquisition , Development,  
Utilization  and Sepera tion.  
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
• Ravinder Shukla, Global India Publications, TALENT MANAGEMENT: Process of 
Developing and Integrating Skilled Workers 
• Talent Development by Dave Collins; Aine MacNamara, Routledge 
• Sloan, Hazucha, a nd Van Katwyk , Strategic management of global leadership talent 
Advances in global leadership 
• Pascal, Talent management systems: Best practices in technology solutions for 
3924 
 
 
recruitment, retention, and workforce planning. 
 Willam Barther (2020), AI Applications in HR Practices, Prentice Hall, NewYork. 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
4025 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course: 1.7 CORPORATE COMMUNICATION SKILLS 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
2 Credits 3 Hrs 45 Hrs 
Course Outcomes:   
1. To sharpen the Analytical, written, non-verbal, Spoken Communication and interpersonal 
skills essential in organizations involving Decision making and implementation. 
2. To demonstrate good team work and negotiation skills. 
Syllabus: 
Module 1: Introduction to Corporate Communication 
Nature of Corp orate Communication, Advantages  of Corporate Communication, Corporate 
Communication for Managerial Functions, Networked Communications, Meta Communications 
system in Organization. Formal and Informal Communications in Organizations, Cost of poor 
Decisions and Communication gap. Importance of Corporate communication for value creation , 
Communication mechanism with stake holders - Corporate liasoning, The Role of C -Suite 
executives in Corporate Communication and Decisions. 
Module 2: Public Speaking   
Characteristics of effective speech, voice quality, rate of speaking, clear articulation, eye contact, 
use of expressions, and gestures and posture; Types of manageria l speeches: speech of 
introduction, speech of vote of thanks, occasional speech, theme speech, formal speeches during 
meetings, Role of Public speaking for better navigation by executives and Managers in 
Organizational Hierarchy, Public speaking for develo ping leadership skills, Trouble shooters 
and corporate communications.  
Module 3: Soft skills 
How communication skills and soft skills are inter -related, Body language-posture, eye-contact, 
handling hand movements, gait - Voice and tone, Meeting and Board room Etiquettes - 
Guidelines for planning a meeting, Before the meeting, On the day of the Meeting, Guidelines 
for Attending the meeting, For the Chairperson, For attendees, For Presenters, Telephone 
Etiquette, Cell phone etiquette, Telephone etiquette gui delines, Mastering the telephone 
courtesy, Active listening, Putting callers on hold, Transferring a call, Screening calls, Taking a 
message, Voice Mail, Closing the call, When Making calls, Closing the call, Handling rude or 
impatient clients, Cross-cultural communication, cultural sensitivity, Cross-cultural issues which 
affect Communication across different Cultures, Culture and non -verbal communication, 
Effective intercultural communication, Business and social etiquette.  
Module 4: Presentation skills of Executives and Employees 
Principles of Effective Presentations, Planning, Structure and Delivery, Principles governing the 
use of Audio -visual media, Time management - Slide design and transition: representation of 
textual information into visuals for effectiveness of communication - Style and persuasiveness of 
the message - Adherence to the number of slides, Dynamics of group presentation and 
individual presentation. 
Module 5:  Technology in Corporate Communication. 
Web /video conferencing, tele -meeting. Virtual Meeting Mechanisms -etiquette, personation 
skills, Work from home communications, E -Training and performance appraisal Physical 
Appearance; Communication Style; Content of Communication, Emerging Trends in Virtual 
Communication. 
 
4126 
 
 
 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. Monipally MM, Busines Communication Strategies, McGraw Hill 
2. Bovee, Till and Schatzman, Business Communication today, Pearson 
3. Scot Ober, Contemporary Busines Communication, Biztantra 
4. Parag Diwan, Business Communication, Excell books 
5. Murphy, Effective Business Communication, McGraw-hill 
6. Teaching and learning Resources; 
http://eff.cls.utk.edu/fundamentals/eff standards.htm 
http://www.ndted.org/teachingResources/ClassroomTips/Communication.htm 
 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
 
4227 
 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course:  2.1 MODERN INDIAN BANKING 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: On successful completio n of the course, the students will be able to 
understand the core banking services, prudential norms, new technologies and the latest 
transformation or reforms in Indian Banking Sector.  
Syllabus: 
Module 1: Introduction to Indian Banking:   Introduction to Indian Banking: Phases of Indian 
Banking System, Introduction on SBI, Nationalized Banks, Private Banks, Local Area Banks, 
Small Finance Banks, Payment Banks, Foreign Banks, Cooperative Banks and Regional Rural 
Banks: Features, Functions & Objectives. Ac ts: Banking Regulation Act, 1949, Deposit 
Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation Act 1961, The Securitization and Reconstruction 
of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Securities Interest Act, 2002 (SARFAESI Act), 
Prevention of Money Laundering Act 200 2, Banking Ombudsman Scheme – Introduction & 
Concept. Major Reforms in Banking Sector in India. 
Module 2: Reserve Bank of India:   Reserve Bank of India: History, Key Landmarks, 
Objectives, Organization Structure, Functions, recent measures by RBI. Introdu ction to 
Monetary Policy: Techniques of Monetary Policy – Qualitative & Quantitative (CRR, SLR, 
Repo, Reverse Repo, Bank Rate, MSF Rate, MCLR Rate, Liquidity Adjustment Facility, Open 
Market Operations, Marginal Stability Scheme), Monetary Policy and Indian Economy. 
Module 3: Non-Performing Asset (NPA):  Introduction to NPA: Meaning & Definition, 
Identification of NPA, Asset Classification & Guidelines by RBI, Provisioning – Asset 
Classification, Causes for NPA, Effects of NPA, Impact of NPA on Balance Shee t, Balance Sheet 
Cleaning, Monitoring of NPA, Measures to overcome NPA, Writing off of NPAs, NPA 
Management. NPA norms by RBI. IRAC Norms (i.e., Income Recognition and Asset 
Classification norms), Debt Recovery Tribunals, Willful Defaulters, Introduction t o Credit 
Information Bureau (India) Limited (CIBIL), Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), 2016. 
Module 4: BASEL Norms:  Introduction to BASEL, History of BASEL, BASEL: I, II and III – 
Objectives, Framework, Challenges, Pillars and Impact. BASEL Norms – Guidelines by RBI. 
Recession and Indian Banking Sector. 
Module 5: Asset & Liability Management: Introduction, Meaning & Definition, Types and 
Characteristics of Assets & Liabilities, ALM Strategies, Risk Management Concepts, VAR 
Analysis, Back-testing and Stress Test for Banks, E-Frauds in banking System – Challenges and 
Solutions. 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. Gorden and Natarajan: Banking Theory Law and Practice 
2. Tannan M L: Banking Law and Practice in India 
3. Vasant Desai, Bank and Institutional Management, HPH, 
4. Muralisubbakrishna, Bank Credit Management, 
5. O Payramval, Modern Banking of India. 
6. Shekar K C: Banking Theory Law and Practice 
7. S.P. Srivastava: Banking Theory Law and Practice 
8. Kiran Prakashan: Banking and Financial Awareness 
9. Moorad Choudhry: The Principles of Banking,  
10. S Natarajan & Dr. R. Parameswaran, Indian Banking, Kindle Edition 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
4328 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course: 2.2 RISK MANAGEMENT & DERIVATIVES  
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of the course, the students will be able to 
understand the basic knowledge of risk, type of risks and tools of risk management.  They can 
understand the role of derivatives as financial instruments to mitigate the risks in Business. 
Syllabus: 
Module 1: Introduction to Risks:    Introduction to Risks: Meaning, Definition, Evolution, 
Types, Classification, Sources, Scope, Challenges o f Risks to Business. Introduction to Risk 
Management: Meaning & Definition, Steps in Risk Management, Objectives, Process, Role of 
Risk Management in Business & Finance - Risk Management Techniques, Risk and 
Uncertainty, Perils, Clauses and Risk Covers. Ri sk Management Practices in Busines s, 
Insurance, Banks and Finance, Concept of Agri Risk Management. 
Module 2: Credit Risk Management:    Credit Risk and Risk Management Models: 
Introduction to Credit Risk, Meaning & Definition, Sources, Components, Classif ication of 
Credit Risk, Factors affecting Credit Risk. Introduction to Credit Risk Management – Meaning, 
Principles, Prudential Norms, Process, Tools of Credit Risk Management, Functionality of 
Good Credit. Concept & Problems on Credit Risk Management Mode ls: Altman’s Z Score 
Model, RAROC Model, KMV Model, VAR Model, Credit Metrics Model, Credit Risk Rating 
Model, Credit Risk Score by CIBIL – Mechanism. 
Module 3: Market Risk & Operations Risk :   Introduction to Market Risk: Meaning & 
Definition, Types, Yield Curve & Types. Introduction to (Value at Risk) VaR Model: Meaning & 
Definition, Why VaR?, Calculation of VAR, Pros & Cons of VaR, Methods of VaR – Historical 
Simulation, Model Building Approach, Linear Approach, Quadratic Model, Monte Carlo 
Simulation, Stress Testing and Back Testing – Concept & Problems. Introduction to Operations 
Risk Management (ORM): Meaning & Definition, Features, Types & Causes of Operations Risk, 
ORM Process, Why ORM?, Risk Modelling Methods, 5M Model – Concept.  
Module 4 : Basics of Derivatives:  Introduction to Derivatives, Evolution of Derivatives, 
Meaning & Definition, Characteristics, Functions, Participants, Economic Benefits of 
Derivatives, Factor Contributing to the growth of Derivatives Market in India, Types of 
Derivatives – Concept, Meaning & Definition. Recent Trends in Derivatives. 
Module 5: Futures, Options & Swaps:   Introduction to Futures Market: Meaning & Definition, 
Evolution, Types, Features, Terminologies, Pros & Cons, Forwards v/s Futures, Margin & 
Types of Mar gin, Mark to Market – Concept & Problems, Cost of Carry Model – Concept & 
Problems, Clearing & Settlement of Future Contract. Introduction to Options Contract: 
Meaning & Definition, Evolution, Types, Features, Terminologies, Pros & Cons, Options 
Market Trading Mechanism, Futures v/s Options, Option Valuation: Binomial Option Pricing 
Model, Black-Scholes Option Pricing – Concept & Problems. Introduction to Swaps: Meaning & 
Definition, Types, Features, Pricing of Swaps: Concept & Problems. 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. P.K. Supta, Insurance & Risk Management, HPH 
2. G. Koreshwar, Risk Management, HPH 
3. S.K. Poddar, Risk & Insurance Management, HPH 
4. John C. Hull, Risk Management & Financial Institutions, HPH 
5. Robert W. Kolb, James A. Overdahl, Financ ial Derivatives: Pricing and Risk 
Management, John Wiley & Sons. 
6. Sundaram Janakiramanan, Derivatives and Risk Management, Pearson Education India 
4429 
 
 
 
 
 
7. Verma, Derivatives and Risk Management, Tata McGraw-Hill Education 
8. KHATRI, DHANESH KUMAR, Derivatives and Risk  Management, PHI Learning Pvt. 
Ltd. 
9. Steve L. Allen, Financial Risk Management, Wiley 
10. Philippa X. Girling, Operational Risk Management, Wiley 
 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
4530 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course:  2.3 ADVANCED RESEARCH METHODOLOGY 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of the course, the Students will be able to learn 
concepts, tools and techniques of th e methodology of business research. It also gives an 
opportunity to do a research / consultancy project in future. 
Syllabus: 
Module 1: Introduction to Research:  Introduction to Research: Meaning, Characteristics, 
Objectives, Motivation in Research, Types , Methods, Significance, Process, Approaches, 
Criteria of Good Research. Concept of Theory, Empiricism, Deductive and Inductive Theory. 
Introduction to Ethics in Research, Plagiarism, Limitations and Ethical Issues in Research, 
Software for Detection of Pl agiarism, Plagiarism level in National and International 
Publications, Problems encountered by researchers in India.  
Module 2:  Research Topic & Research Design: Selecting a Topic for Research, Types of 
Research Problems in Social Science, Components & S ources of Research Problem, Techniques 
involved in Defining Problem, Definition of Problem and Evaluating Problem, Review of 
Literature: Need, Purpose & Note Taking, Research Gap Identification. Introduction to 
Research Design: Meaning, Need & Importance, Types & Uses of Research Design, Features of 
Good Research Design, Types of Research Design – Concept, Pros & Cons. Qualitative, 
Quantitative and Mixed Research Designs, Steps in Sample Design, Complex Random Sample 
Designs, Variables in Research: Introduction, Meaning, Types. 
Module 3: Scales of Measurement & Data Processing:  Scales of Measurement: Types of Data 
Measurement Scale, Techniques of Data Scaling, Goodness of Measurement Scales, Deciding 
the Scale, Validating the Scale. Data Processing: Proces sing and Distribution - Field Work 
Validation - Tabulation - Editing - Coding - Classification and Tabulation of Data - Presentation 
- Graphical Representation. Reliability and Validity: Meaning, Types and Need. Sources of 
Data: Primary and Secondary Sourc es – Qualitative and Quantitative Methods of Data 
Collection, Constructing Questionnaire, Standardized Questionnaire, Questionnaire v/s 
Schedules. 
Module 4: Sampling & Hypothesis:   Introduction to Sampling: Concepts of Population, 
Sample, Sampling Frame, Sampling Error, Sample Size, Characteristics of a good sample, 
Types of Sampling - Probability and Non-Probability, Determining Size of the Sample, Sample 
v/s Census, Introduction to Hypothesis: Meaning, Concepts & Types. Type I and Type II 
Errors, Level of Significance, Testing of Hypotheses: Concepts, Steps in Testing of Hypothesis, 
P – Value Approach. 
Module 5: Statistical Tests & Software’s:  Univariate and Multivariate Data Analysis, 
Descriptive vs Inferential Analysis - Descriptive Analysis of Univari ate Data and Bivariate 
Data, Parametric and Non-Parametric Tests, Correlation Analysis, Multiple regression analysis,  
t-Test, Z -Test, F -Test, Chi -Square, ANOVA  and Econometrics Model  – Concept & Problems. 
Importance of Report Writing - Types of Reports, F ootnotes and Bibliography, Reference 
Management Software like Zotero/Mendeley, Research Software like SPSS, AMOS, GRATEL , 
R TOOLS., PYTHON, etc. 
 In the place of Internal Assessment, Practical Tests shall be conducted through 
Statistical software packages (SPSS, AMOS) for Research. 
 Practical Examination will be conducted by the BOE. 
 
 
4631 
 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. Moses, C.A. Survey Methods in Social Investigation. 
2. Goode & Hatt, Methods in Social Investigation. 
3. William Emory, Business Research Methods. 
4. Vemon Colver & H.L. Balsleg, Business Research Methods. 
5. Krishnaswamy O.R, Methodology of Research in Social Sciences, Himalya Publishing 
house. 
6. Kothari. C.R, Methodology of Research, Vikas Publishing House. 
7. K.R. Sharma, Research Methodology, National Publishers, Jaipur. 
8. Wilkinson & Bhandarkar, Methodology and Techniques of Social Research. 
9. Cooper D.R and P.S. Schindler, Business Research Methods, Tata McGraw Hill. 
10. C.S. Raydu, E-Business of E-Commerce, HPH 
11. Dr. Usha Devi, Business Research Method, HPH 
12. J.K Sachdeva, Business Research Methodology,  
13. William Emory, Business Research Methods. 
14. Dr. O. R. Krishnaswami, “ Business Research Methods ”, Himalaya Publishing House, 
2020, Mumbai. 
15. P.K. Mozi, Research Methodology, HPH 
16. Dr. Usha Devi, Business Research Method, HPH 
 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
4732 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course: 2.4 DIGITAL MARKETING 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes:  On successful completion of the course, the students will gain industry 
background knowledge t o knowledgeably navigate Digital  Marketing topics including Digital 
advertising, search, social media, and online privacy. 
Syllabus: 
Module 1: Introduction to Digital Marketing: Introduction, Meaning & Definition, History, 
Objectives, Features, Scope, Benefits a nd Problems, Techniques, Digital  Marketing v/s Real 
Marketing.  Landscape – Past – Today – Future; Internet Infrastructure Stack Business Models 
& Strate gies: Strategic Planning – Strategy to Electronic Planning – Strategic Drivers of the 
Internet Economy – Business Models to Digital Business Models – E-Business Models – 
Performance Metrics – The Balanced Scorecard. 
Module 2: Digital Marketing Environment:  Product – Products on Internet – Creating 
Customer Value Online – Product Benefits – E-Marketing Enhanced Product Development – 
Price – Change in Pricing Strategies – Buyer and Seller Perspectives – Payment Options – 
Pricing Strategies – Distribution– Online Channel Intermediaries – Distribution Channel 
Length and Functions – Channel Management and Power – Distribution Channel Metrics – 
Promotion – Integrated Marketing Communication (IMC) – Internet Advertising – Marketing 
Public Relations – Sales Promotion Offers – Direct Marketing – Personal Selling – IMC Metrics- 
Search Engine Optimization (SEO) – Contents, Tools & Optimization. Content Management – 
SWOC. 
Module 3: Research Environment :  Data Driven Strategy – Marketing Knowledge 
Management – Monitoring Social Media – Technology-Enabled Approaches – Real-Space 
Approaches – Marketing Databases and Data Warehouses – Data Analysis and Distribution – 
Knowledge Management Metrics - Consumer Behaviour Online – Segmentation – Targeting – 
Differentiation – Positioning Strategies, Online Marketing Research Tools, Affiliated Marketing 
– Concept. Overview of Global E -Marketing Issues – Country and Market Opportunity 
Analysis – Technological Readiness Influences Marketing – Wireless Internet. 
Module 4:  Customer Acquisition and Retention:  Profile of Consumers – Browsing Behaviour 
Model – Elements of Social Media – Social Media Strategies – Social Media Performance 
Metrics – Building Customer Relationships – Relationship Marketing – Stakeholders – Three 
Pillars of Re lationship Marketing – Customer Relationship Management (CRM) – CRM 
Building Blocks – Ten rules for CRM Success – CRM Platforms, Strategies & Models. E -CRM 
System: Why & Uses, Website Solution Method, Web Analytics & Use of Google Analytics – 
Reports. 
Module 5: Emerging Issues:  Online Governance and ICANN – Jurisdiction – Fraud – 
Consumer Loyalty of Website -Services – The Quadratic Effect of Flow – Role of Technology 
Readiness in Developing Trust and Loyalty for E -Services in Developing.  Access – The Digital 
Divide Ethical and Legal Issues – Privacy – Digital Property – Online Expression – Cyber 
Security –Cyber Crime. Email, Facebook, Instagram, LinkedIn and other Social Applications 
Marketing – Concept. 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. KAUSHIK, A, Web Analytics 2.0 (1st ed.). Wyley Publishing, Inc.TK 5105.88817 K38i 
2. KRUG, S, Don't make me think, Revisited (3nd ed.). New Riders Press TK 5105.888 K78  
3. HUNT, B. Convert! Designing websites to increase traffic and conversion (1st ed.). Wiley 
Publishing.TK 5105.888 H85 
4833 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. BAILEY. M, Internet Marketing: An Hour a Day (1st ed.). Wiley Publishing. HF 
5415.1265 B29 
5. KERPEN, D. Likeable Social Media (1st ed.). McGraw-Hill HF 5415.1265 K47 
6. RYAN, D. & JONES, C. (2012). Understanding Digital Marketing (2nd ed. ). Kogan Page 
Publishers. HF 5415.1265 R93 2012 
7. STOKES, R. eMarketing. The essential guide to marketing in a digital world (5th. ed.). 
Retrieved from http://www.redandyellow.co.za/product/textbook-digital/ 
8. P E-Marketing, Judy Strauss and Raymond Frost, Prentice Hall, 6th Edition, 2013 
9. Internet Marketing: Integrating Online and Offline Strategies. M. L. Roberts and Debra 
Zahay, 3rd edition, Cengage Publishing. 
10. Digital Marketing: Strategy, Implementation and Practice, Chaffey D., Ellis -Chadwick, 
5th Edition, F., Pearson. 
11. E Marketing – The essential guide to online marketing, Rob Stokes, Flat world 
knowledge. 
12. E-marketing in Developed and Developing Countries: Emerging Practices, Hatem El - 
Gohary and Riyadh Eid, IGI Global. 
13. The Essential Guide to Online Marketing, Rob Strokes, Quirk, ISBN: 9781936126323 
14. The New Rules of Marketing and PR: How to Use Social Media, Blogs, News Releases, 
Online Video, and Viral Marketing to Reach Buyers Directly, David Meerman Scott, 
2ndEdition. 
15. E-Commerce: An Indian Perspective, P. T. Joseph, Prentice Hall, 4th Edition. 
16. Electronic Commerce: A Simplified Approach, Munesh Chandra Trivedi, Jaico 
Publishing House. 
17. Online Display Advertising: Targeting and Obtrusiveness, Marketing Science, Gold 
farband Tucker. 
 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
4934 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course:  2.5 EMERGING TRENDS IN ENTREPRENEURSHIP 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: On s uccessful completion of the course, the students will gain in -depth 
knowledge on venture creation and development of business plan. The students are exposed to 
successful entrepreneurship stories and encourage them to start their own enterprise. 
Syllabus: 
Module 1: Entrepreneurship:  Introduction – Meaning & Definition of Entrepreneurship, 
Entrepreneur & Enterprise – Differences between Entrepreneurship, Entrepreneur & Enterprise 
– Functions of Entrepreneur – Types of Entrepreneurs - Role of Entrepreneur for Economic 
Development - Factors influencing Entrepreneurship - Pros and Cons of being an Entrepreneur 
– Differences between Manager and Entrepreneur – Qualities of an Entrepreneur – Types of 
Entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurship Development - Need – Problems – National and State Level 
Institutions, Recent Government policies and programmes in the promotion of entrepreneurial 
environment. 
Module 2: Entrepreneurship Development and Leadership: Types of start -ups; 
Entrepreneurial class theories; Entrepreneurial t raining; EDP programmes; Characteristics of 
entrepreneurial leadership, Components of entrepreneurial leadership; International 
Entrepreneurship- Opportunities and challenges; Entrepreneurial challenges; Source of 
innovative ideas; Entrepreneurship and cre ativity; Techniques for generating ideas, 
Impediments to creativity ,  Contemporary Entrepreneurship – Gig Economy Entrepreneurs, 
Niche Entrepreneurs, Digital Nomodism, Distru ptive Technology Entrepreneurs and New age 
Entrepreneurs.  
Module 3: New Venture Planning: : Introduction to Venture, Meaning & Definition, 
Objectives, Characteristics, Types, Stages, Methods to Initiate Ventures; Acquisition -
Advantages of acquiring an ongoing venture and examination of key issues; Franchising - how 
a franchise works, f ranchising law, evaluating of franchising opportunities; Developing a 
marketing plan- customer analysis, sales analysis and competition analysis, steps in marketing 
research; Business plan-benefits of drivers, perspectives in business plan preparation, ele ments 
of a business plan; Business plan failures, Challenges in Indian Market for Ventures and 
Franchisees. 
Module 4 :  Financing Venture:  Financing stages; Sources of finance; Venture capital; Angel 
Investment, Crowd Funding; Criteria for evaluating new v enture proposals; Evaluating 
Venture Capital- process. 
Module 5: Issues for Ventures:   Legal issues – Forming Business Entity, considerations and 
criteria, requirements for formation of a Private/Public Limited Company, Intellectual 
Property Protection- Patents, Trademarks and Copyrights – Importance for start-ups, legal acts 
governing business in India; Opportunities and challenges for starts ups in India/Ethical 
Issues. 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. Vasant Desai: The Dynamics of Entrepreneurship Development and Management, HPH 
2. Mark. J. Dollinger, Entrepreneurship – Strategies and Resources, Pearson Edition. 
3. Satish Taneja: Entrepreneur Development, HPH. 
4. UdaiPareek and T.V. Rao, Developing Entrepreneurship 
5. S.V.S. Sharma, Developing Entrepreneurship, Issues and Problems, SIET, Hyderabad 
6. Srivastava, A Practical Guide to Industrial Entrepreneurs, Sultan Chand. 
7. Government of India, Report of the committee on small and medium entrepreneurs. 
5035 
 
 
 
 
8. VidyaHattangadi ; Entrepreneurship, HPH. 
9. N.V.R. Naidu : Management and Entrepreneurship, I.K. International 
10. Bharusali, Entrepreneur Development, 
11. K. Venkataramanappa, Entrepreneurial Development, SHB Publications 
12. Anil Kumar : Small Business and Entrepreneurship, I.K. International 
13. Rekha & Vibha – Entrepreneurial Management, VBH. 
14. Entrepreneurship Development and Communication Skills Hardcover – 1 January 2012 
by R R Chole (Author), P S Kapse (Author), P R Deshmukh (Author). 
15. Khanka S S : “Entrepreneurial Development”  
16. Dr P T Vijayashree & M Alagammai  ; “Entrepreneurial Development and Small 
Business Management”  
17.   V Desai ; “Dynamics of Entrepreneurial Development and Management”  
18. Desai ; “Entrepreneurial Development”  
19. Steven Rogers and Roza E Makonnen ; “Entrepreneurial Finance, Third Edition: Finance 
and Business Strategies for the Serious Entrepreneur”   
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
5136 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course: 2.6 INDIAN ETHOS AND LEADERSHIP 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of the course, the Students will be able to 
learn Indian Ethos and values along with its relevance on Leadership to take managerial 
decision making in the organization. 
Syllabus: 
Module 1: Introduction to Indian Ethos: Indian Ethos- Meaning, Features, Need, History, 
Relevance, Principles Practiced by Indian Companies, Requisites, Elements, Role of Indian 
Ethos in Managerial Practices, model of management in the Indian socio -political 
environment, Management Lessons from Kautilya’s Arthashastra Indian Heritage in 
Business, Management, Production and Consumption. Ethics v/s Ethos Indian 
Management v/s Western Management –Case Studies. 
Module 2:  Work Ethos and Values:  Work Ethos - Meaning, Le vels, Dimensions, Steps, 
Factors Responsible for Poor Work Ethos. Values: Meaning, Features, Values for Indian 
Managers, Relevance of Value Based Management in Global Change, Impact of Values on 
Stakeholders: Employees, Customers, Government, Competitors a nd Society. B: Relevance 
of values in management: need for values in global change - Indian perspective; values for 
managers; holistic approach for managers in decision making; secular versus spiritual 
values in management, Trans -Cultural Human Values in Ma nagement and Management 
Education, Importance of Value System in Work Culture, teaching ethics–Case Studies. 
Module 3: Leadership: concept and components of leadership. Trait approach in theories 
of leadership. Personal characteristics that support effective leadership. Leader and values, 
Moral Leadership, The significance of self -awareness for the role of leader. Significance of 
communication skills for work life and leadership, Personality Development: Meaning, 
Determinants, Indian Ethos and Personality Development.   Competency and behaviour 
approaches to leadership, Leadership and organization culture–Case Studies. 
Module 4: Leadership development:  Skills for leadership and performance management: 
Goal setting, support of employee development and commu nication of feedback; 
delegation; solving of conflict situations and negotiation. Tools for analysis of leadership 
styles and 360 -degree feedback. Couching and mentoring. Emotions and self -
management, emotional intelligence and its significance in the role  of leader. Handling 
emotions and stress. Creative leadership: Influence on the creative potential of work 
groups and teams; formation of innovative climate in organizations–Case Studies. 
Module 5: Stress Management:  Meaning, Types of Stress at Work, Caus es of Stress, 
Consequences of Stress, Problems relating to stress in corporate management –Indian 
perspective, Stress Management Techniques: Meditation - Meaning, Techniques, 
Advantages, Mental Health and its Importance in Management, Brain Storming, Brain 
Stilling, Yoga: Meaning, Significance–Case Studies. 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. R Nandagopal, Ajith Sankar RN: Indian Ethics and Values in Management, Tata Mc 
Graw Hill  
2. Bhatta, S.K., Business Ethics & Managerial Values.  
3. K. Nagarajan ; Indian Ethos and Values : For Leadership Excellence 
4. G. D. Sharma ; Management and the Indian Ethos (Paperback) by Rupa & Co, India  
5. B.K. Nair,K.C.R. Raja,S. Balachandran ; Ethics, Indian Ethos and Management 
6. G. D. Sharma ; Management and the Indian Ethos. 
5237 
 
 
 
 
 
7. Ganjre, Pawar & Laxman ; Indian Ethos - Modern Management Mantra; by 
Himalaya Publishing House Pvt. Ltd.  
8. S.K. Bhatia; Business Ethics and Global Values (For Management Courses: Focus on 
Indian Ethos, Ethics in Profession, Corporate Governance, MNCs Values) by 
REGAL Publications. 
9. M. K. Joseph, Business Ethos and Values, Anmol Publications Pvt. Limited 
10. Alok Chakrawal,  Pratibha Goyal, Stress Management,  Studera Press 
 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
5338 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course: 2.7 ARTIFICIAL  INTELLIGENCE IN BUSINESS  
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
2 Credits 3 Hrs 45 Hrs 
Course Outcomes:  In the business world, competition is the main factor, intelligence is 
prerequisite for understand to meet competition. AI and BI are essential learning and analytical 
concepts. So that, students can enhance their intelligence and they can take -up career in these 
fields. 
Syllabus: 
Module 1: Artificial Intelligence: Meaning, scope, nature of business problem solving, cognitive 
science, knowledge acquisition techniques, knowledge sharing and transformation of knowledge 
Module 2:  Knowledge Mapping: Inheritable knowledge, machine and robotic knowledge, 
knowledge mapping system, knowledge V/s skills, re-skills, knowledge creation with the help of 
AI, forward and backward thinking, value system and mind mapping techniques, human capital 
analytics. 
Module 3:  Modelling of AI: Intelligent system, areas of AI, Psychological modeling, impr oving 
efficiency, business model analysis, appreciative intelligence, benchmarking analysis and 
business model analysis. 
Module 4:  Intelligent Cycle:  Intelligent cycle components, forms of analysis: facts, perception, 
beliefs, assumptions, projections and  synthesis. Intelligent decision -making, intelligent solution 
to business problems, unlock value of AI in business, avoiding analysis pitfalls and developing 
analytical fitness through AI, Introduction to Machine Learning and Concepts of Data Science. 
Module 5: Business Intelligence: Meaning, importance in business decision -making 
interpretation of big data, business and competitive intelligence, business analytics, BI 
capabilities in business solutions, recent trends in BI. 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. Anu Singh Lather, Anil S Saini and Sanjay Dhingra: Business Intelligence and Data ware 
housing: Narosa Publishing House. 
2.  Barr et al Handbook of Artificial Intelligence: Morgan Kaufmann. 
3.  Business Intelligence: Concepts, methods, tools and  application by MAIR (Management 
Association Information Resources) IGI Global Publisher 2015. 
4.  Charniak and McDermott: Introduction to Artificial Intelligence Addison Wesley. 
5. Craig S. Fleisher and Babette E. Bensoussan: Business and Competitive Analysis, Pearson. 
6.  Elaine Rich and Kevin Knight: Artificial Intelligence, Second edition: McGraw-Hill –Inc. 
7.  Genesereth & Nilsson : Logical Foundation of Artificial Intelligence: Morgan Kaufmann. 
21 
8.  John Boyer et al: Business Intelligence Strategy: A Practical Guide for achieving business 
intelligence excellence: McGraw Hill. 
9. John Brooks: Business Adventures: John Murracy Learning Private Information and 
Business Development. 
10.  Nilsson : Principles of Artificial Intelligence: Morgan Kaufmann. 
11.  Rajiv Sabherwar, et al , Business Intelligence Practice: Practices, Technologies and 
Management, Willey. 
 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
5439 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course:  3.1 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of the course, the students will understand  
fundamental aspects of Intellectual Property Rights to students who are going to play a major 
role in development and management of innovative projects in industries and an ample scope of 
knowledge on copyrights and its related rights and registration aspects. 
Syllabus: 
Module 1:  Introduction to IPR:  Introduction and the need for intellectual property right (IPR) - 
Kinds of Intellectual Property Rights: Patent, Copyright, Trade Mark, Design, Geographical 
Indication, Plant Varieties and Layout Design – Genetic Resources and Traditional Knowledge – 
Trade Secret - Nature of Intellectual Property - Industrial P roperty - Technological Research, 
Inventions and Innovations – Important examples of IPR. - IPR in India. Genesis and 
development – IPR in abroad - Major International Instruments concerning Intellectual Property 
Rights: Paris Convention, 1883, Berne Conve ntion, 1886, Universal Copyright Convention, 1952, 
WIPO Convention, 1967, Patent Co-operation Treaty, 1970, TRIPS Agreement, 1994 and others. 
Module 2:  Registration & Laws of IPR:  Meaning and Practical aspects of registration of IPRs 
in India and Abroad : Registration Process in India, Office of the Controller General of Patents, 
Designs & Trade Marks (CGPDTM), National IPR Policy – Features.  Laws of IPR:  Patents Act, 
1970, Trade Mark Act, 1999, The Designs Act, 2000, The Geographical Indications of Goo ds 
(Registration and Protection) Act, 1999, Copyright Act, 1957, The Protection of Plant Varieties and 
Farmers’ Rights Act, 2001, The Semi -Conductor Integrated Circuits Layout Design Act, 2000, 
Aesthetic Values and Trade Secrets, Utility Models and others.  Personal Data Protection Bill 
2019.  Career Opportunities in IPR. 
Module 3: Patents & Copy Rights:  Patents - Elements of Patentability: Novelty, Non -
Obviousness (Inventive Steps), Industrial Application - Non - Patentable Subject Matter - 
Registration Procedure, Rights and Duties of Patentee, Assignment and licence, Restoration of 
lapsed Patents, Surrender and Revocation of Patents, Infringement, Remedies & Penalties - 
Patent office and Appellate Board. Nature of Copyright - Subject matter of copyright: original 
literary, dramatic, musical, artistic works; cinematograph films and sound recordings - 
Registration Procedure, Term of protection, Ownership of copyright, Assignment and licence of 
copyright - Infringement, Remedies & Penalties – Related Rights - Distinction between related 
rights and copyrights. 
Module 4:   Trade Marks & others:  Concept of Trademarks - Different kinds of marks (brand 
names, logos, signatures, symbols, well known marks, certification marks and service marks) - 
Non-Registrable Tr ademarks - Registration of Trademarks - Rights of holder and assignment 
and licensing of marks - Infringement, Remedies & Penalties - Trademarks registry and 
appellate board. Plant Variety Protection & Layout Design Protection:  Registration procedure 
Module 5:  Design & Geographical Indicators (GI):  Design: meaning and concept of novel and 
original - Procedure for registration, effect of registration and term of protection.  Geographical 
indication: meaning, and difference between GI and trademarks - Procedure for registration, 
effect of registration and term of protection. 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. Nithyananda, K V. (2019). Intellectual Property Rights: Protection and Management. 
India, IN: Cengage Learning India Private Limited. 
2. 2. Neeraj, P., & Khusdeep, D. (2014). Intellectual Property Rights. India, IN: PHI learning 
5540 
 
Private Limited. 
3. Ahuja, V K. (2017). Law relating to Intellectual Property Rights. India, IN: Lexis Nexis. 
4. Subramanian, N., & Sundararaman, M. (2018). Intellectual Pr operty Rights – An 
Overview. Retrieved from http://www.bdu.ac.in/cells/ipr/docs/ipr-eng-ebook.pdf 
5. World Intellectual Property Organisation (https://www.wipo.int/about-ip/en/) 
6. Office of the Controller General of Patents, Designs & Trademarks 
(http://www.ipindia.nic.in/) 
7. Journal of Intellectual Property Rights (JIPR): NISCAIR 
8. Deborah E. Bouchoux, ―Intellectual Property: The Law of Trademarks, Copyrights, 
Patents and Trade Secrets‖, Cengage Learning, Third Edition, 2012. 
9. Prabuddha Ganguli, Intellectual Property Rights: Unleashing the Knowledge Economy ‖, 
McGraw Hill Education. 
10. Edited by Derek Bosworth and Elizabeth Webster, The Management of Intellectual 
Property, Edward Elgar Publishing Ltd. 
11. V. Scople Vinod, Managing Intellectual Property, Prentice Hall of India pvt Ltd. 
12. Sunita K. Sreedhararn , An Introduction to Intellectual Asset Management. 
13. Patrick H. Sullivan, Profiting from Intellectual Capital: Extracting Value from Innovation 
14. Tulika Rastogi, IP Audit: Your Way to Healthy Organisation 
15. Gordon V. Smith and Russell L. Parr, Valuation of Intellectual Property and Intangible 
Assets, 3rd Edition 
16. Bruce Berman, From Assets to Profits: Competing for IP Value and Return (Intellectual 
Property-General, Law, Accounting & Finance, Management, Licensing, Special Topics). 
 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
5641 
 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course: 3.2 LOGISTICS and SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of the course, the Students will be able to 
understand the concepts of Logistics and also to understand the importance Supply Chain 
Management in different kinds of Industries.   
Syllabus: 
Module 1:  Elements of Logistics & Supply Chain Management: Introduction – Positioning of 
Information in Logistics and Supply Chain Management – Logistics Information System (LIS) – 
Operational Logistical Information System –Emerging Technologi es in Logistics and Supply 
Chain Management, Growth of Logistics and Supply Chain Management in national and 
international scenarios. 
Module 2: Value Chain Management:   Value Chain – Functions and Contributions – Supply 
Chain Effectiveness and Indian Infr astructure – Framework for Supply Chain Solution – 
Outsourcing and 3PLs – Fourth-party Logistics (4PLs) –Supply Chain Relationships – Conflict 
Resolution Strategies for Harmonious Relationships. 
Module 3: Supply Chain Sustainability -Triple Bottom Line –Profit, Planet, People -CSR-Ethics 
in Supply Chain Management. 
Module 4: Supply Chain Partners:  Introduction– Concepts of Warehousing – Types of 
Warehouse– Functions of Warehousing – Strategic Warehousing, Warehouse Operations, 
Ownership Arrangements, Warehous e Decisions, Warehouse Management Systems, Packaging 
Perspectives, Packaging for Material Handling Efficiency, Materials Handling, Supply Chain 
Logistics Design: Global Strategic Positioning; Global SC Integration, SC Security, International 
Sourcing, Distribution control & evaluation. 
Module 5: Supply Chain and Logistics Administration: Relationship Development 
Management- Relationship Management, Customer Relationship Management (CRM) Focus, 
Internal Supply Chain Management (ISCM) Focus, Supplier Relatio nship Management (SRM) 
Focus. Operational Performance, Financial Performance, Social Performance 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. Nandi S. K, Logistics Management, Oxford publications  
2. Christopher Martin, Logistics and Supply Chain Management, Pearson  
3. Bowersox, Supply Chain Logistics Management, McGraw Hill  
4. Gaurdin, Kent N., Global Logistics Management (2001), Blackwell Publishers Ltd., 
Oxford. 
5. Martin Christopher, Logistics an d Supply Chain Management , Financial Times 
Management, Pitman Publishing, London. 
6. Kapoor Satish K., and KansalPurva, Basics of Distribution Management: A Logistical 
Approach‘,Prentice HALL of India  
7. D K Agrawal, Distribution and Logistics Management: A Strategic Marketing Approach ‘, 
Macmillan publishers India. 
8. Alan Rus ton, Phil Crouches, Peter Baker, The Handbook of Logistics and Distribution 
Management kogan page India new Delhi. 
9. Stuart Russell and Peter Norvig ; “Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach”. 
10. Nils J Nilsson ; “Artificial Intelligence: A New Sythesis”   
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
5742 
 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course:  3.3 (Accounts) CORPORATE REPORTING PRACTICES- I 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of the course, the Students will be able to 
understand the reporting aspects of different elements, standards of Financial 
Statements. 
Syllabus: 
MODULE 01 : Conceptual Framework of Financial Statements and IND -AS -  
Introduction- Framework and its purpose - scope of the “framework” - users of financial 
statements - objectives to prepare financial statements -  underlying assumptions - 
Accrual Basis, Going Concern - qualitative aspects of financial statements - constraints     
on     relevant     and     reliable     information - elements of financial statements - 
recognition   of   the   elements   of   financial   statements - measurement   of   the   
elements   of   financial   statements - financial   capital   maintenance   vs.   Physical   
capital maintenance. 
IND-AS: Introduction to IND - AS, Adoption vs Convergence, roadmap   for 
implementation   of   the   Indian   Accounting Standards (IND - AS), Financial 
statements as per schedule iii to the companies’ act, 2013 - list of Indian Accounting 
Standards converged with IFRS. 
MODULE 02:  Measurement Based on Accounting Policies 
Ind AS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors - 
(Provisions) , Ind AS 10: Events after the Reporting Period - (Provisions) ,  Ind AS 113: 
Fair Value Measurement - (Provisions), Ind AS 20 “Accounting for Government Grants 
and Disclosure of Government Assistance” -(Provisions), Ind AS 102 “Share Based 
Payment”-(Provisions), Ind AS 101  “First-time Adoption of Indian Accounting 
Standards”-(Provisions) 
MODULE 03:  Asset Based Standards  
Ind AS 2 “Inventories” - Ind AS 16 “Property, Plant and Equipment” - Ind AS 116 
“Leases”- Ind AS 23 “Borrowing Costs” -Ind AS 36 “Impairment of Assets” - Ind AS 38 
“Intangible Assets”- Ind AS 40 “Investment Property” 
(Note : Provisions & Practical Problems to be taught for all IND AS) 
Module 04:   Liability Based Standards  
Ind AS 37 “Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets” - Scope, provision, 
liability, obligating event, legal obligatio n, constructive obligation, contingent liability, 
contingent asset, relationship between provisions and contingent liability, recognition of 
provisions, Contingent asset and contingent liability, Measurement and Disclosure of 
Information in the Financial Statements.  
(Note : Provisions & Practical Problems to be taught) 
Module 05:   Revenue Based Standards 
Ind AS “115 Revenue from Contracts with Customers”,  Ind AS 113 Fair Value 
Measurement” Contract, Customer, Income, performance obligation, Revenue, 
transaction price, Applicability of Ind AS 115, Recognition and identifying performance 
obligation, determining the transaction price, disclosure requirements in Financial 
Statements (Note: Provisions & Practical Problems to be taught). 
5843 
 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. CA Anand Banka- Comprehensive guide to IND AS implementation. 
2. CA Praveen Kumar- Consolidation under IND AS- IFRS converged standard 
3. CA. Kamal Garg, Corporate Social Responsibility, Bharath Publication 
4. Sanjay K Agarwal, Corporate Social Responsibility in India, SAGE Response 
5. IFRS for India, Dr.A.L.Saini, Snow white publications 
6. Roadmap to IFRS and Indian Accounting Standards by CA Shibarama Tripathy 
7. IFRS explained – A guide to International financial reporting standards by BPP 
learning Media 
8. IFRS for finance executives by Ghosh T P, taxman allied services private limited 
9. IFRS concepts and applications by Kamal Garg, Bharath law house private 
limited 
10. IFRS: A Quick Reference Guide by Robert J. Kirk, Elsevier Ltd. 
11. First lesson to International Financial Reporting Standards beginners guide by 
MP Vijay Kumar, prime knowledge services. 
12. Sariha Gosain and Rajeeh Gosain- Practical approach to IND AS implementation, 
illustrations, summary & comparisons 
13. https://www.icai.org/post.html?post_id=16002 
 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
5944 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course: 3.4 (Accounts) STRATEGIC COST MANAGEMENT – I 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of the course, the Students will be able to 
understand the internal environment of business and to enable them to formulate strategies 
relating to cost. 
Syllabus: 
Module 1: Costing Strategy: Influence of different cla ssification of cost elements on business 
enterprise, Importance of analysing cost elements, cost control and cost reduction: meaning, 
process, methods and techniques of cost control and cost reduction, cost management: areas of 
cost management, difference between cost management and cost accounting, role of cost 
accounting in strategic planning and management control. 
Module 2: Activity Based Costing System: Introduction to traditional methods of overhead 
absorption, problems of overhead absorption system under Traditional System, introduction to 
ABC, Kaplan and Coopers approach to ABC, cost drivers and cost activities, allocation of 
overheads under ABC, Characteristics of ABC, benefits from adaptation of ABC System, 
problems on comparison between traditional system and ABC system(Problems).. 
Module 3: Life Cycle Costing: Meaning of LCC, factors affecting Life cycle costing, phases in 
product life cycle, characteristics, product life cycle and cost control. Experience curve in 
product life cycle costing. Pr oject life cycle costing: Meaning, categories of project life cycle 
costs, optimization of project life cycle costs(Problems). 
Module 4: Just in Time, Kaizen and Lean Costing:  
JIT – features, methodology in implementation of JIT, Benefits of JIT ((Problems). 
Kaizen Costing: concept, procedure for implementation, evaluation, benefits of Kaizen costing.  
Lean Cost Management:  Meaning, definition, factors, applications, procedure to 
implementation, comparison with traditional management system, Modern produc tion 
management techniques, benefits and drawbacks of Lean Cost Management (Problems). 
Module 5:  Strategic Cost and Performance Evaluation: Integration of strategic cost 
management with performance evaluation, Strategic cost management issues in different  
elements of cost; material, labour and overheads; product design, value analysis and value 
engineering, strategic analysis of cost, business process re-engineering, benchmarking. 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. Ravi. M. Kishore, Cost Management, Taxman, Allied Services (p) Ltd., 
2. Sharma &Shashi. K Gupta ; Cost & Management Accounting Kalyani Publishers 
3. Arora M N – A Text book of Cost & Management Accounting, Vikas Publishing, New 
Delhi 
4. Lal Jawahar, Srivastava Seema. Cost Accounting, 5thEdition, Tata Mcgraw-Hill, Delhi 
5. S.K.R. Paul, Management Accounting, New Central Book Agency Private Ltd., Calcutta. 
6. Horngren T. Charles, Datar M. Sri kant and Rajan V. Madhav. Cost Accounting: A 
Managerial Emphasis, 15th Edition, Prentice Hall publishers, Delh 
7. Roger Cowe, Hand Book of Management Accounting, A Grower Handbook. 
8. S. Mukherjee & A.P. Roychowdhury, Advanced Cost and Management Accountancy, New 
Central Book Agency, Calcutta 
9. Brown &Haward, Mac Donald , Evans, Principles of Management Accountancy, London. 
10. John K. Shank, Cases in Cost Management: A Strategic Emphasis, South-Western 
Publishing, Thomson Learning. Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
6045 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course: 3.5 (Accounts) CORPORATE TAX PLANNING 
Course Credits No. of Hours per 
Week  
Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes:  Corporate tax planning is a specific and specialized area where the students 
may acquire knowledge on the subject. Corporate tax planning as a su bject is very interesting to 
know how the corporate assesses plan to utilize various provision as provided in the Income Tax 
Act 1961 with an objective to minimize their tax liability. The students have to keep themselves 
updated with Finance Act  applicable for respective financial year. 
Syllabus: 
Module 1:  Basic frame work of Direct Taxation – Introduction to Taxes, History of Taxation in 
India- Principles of Direct Taxation - Appraisal of Annual Finance Act, Tax Planning and its 
methods, Advance Tax Rulings .(Provisions) 
Module 2:  Assessment of Company – Meaning, Types, Salient features of company taxation,  – 
Head – wise computation of income of companies, Depreciation U/S 32 - set-off and carry 
forward of losses, deductions from gross total income 80G-80GGA-80GGB,80JJA,80IA-80IB-80IC, 
Calculation of Taxable Income and Tax Liability as per Normal Provisions, MAT (Minimum 
Alternative Tax) 115 JB and Tax Credit. (Provisions and Practical Problems) 
Module 3: Tax planning and Management - Meaning, Objectives, Scope, Tax Avoidance, Tax 
Evasion, and Tax Management -Tax planning with reference to setting up of new business, 
Location of new business, Nature of new Business, Forms of Organization - Tax planning with 
respect to amalgamation and mergers, multinatio nal companies, double taxation treaties, joint 
ventures and foreign collaborations, Tax Haven, Vivad se Viswas, (Settlement of Pending 
Litigations) .(Provisions) 
Module 4:  Corporate Restructuring & Tax Planning – 
Capital Structure Issues & Issues of Bonu s Shares, Make or Buy, Own or Lease, Retain or 
Replace, Repairs, Renewal, Transfer pricing. (Provisions and Practical Problem) 
Contemporary Issues like Direct Tax Code and its implication to various Indian sectors, Budget 
Implications to Income Tax provisions.(Provisions) 
Module 5: Tax Payments - E-TDS/TCS, advance payment of tax, e -filing of tax returns and 
assessments, CBDT Tribunal , Appeals to High Court/Supreme Court and Settlement 
Commission, refunds, and revision,. (Provisions and Practical Problems) 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. Vinod K Singhania and Kapil Singhania, Direct Tax Planning and Management, Taxman. 
2. Vinod, K. Singhania, Direct Taxes - Law and Practices, Taxman. 
3. Mehrotra, H. C, Income Tax Law and Accounts including Tax Plan ning, Sahitya Bhawan 
Publications.  
4. Narang and Gaur, Income Tax, Himalaya Publishing House. 
5. Prasad, B, Direct Taxes -Law and Practices, Wishwa Prakashana 
6. T. N. Manoharan, Students Handbook on Income Tax Law, Snow White Publications 
7. Harshad. C. Chowdhry, Central Excise and Customs, Ashoda Publications 
6146 
 
8. E. A. Srinivas, Corporate Tax Planning, Tata McGraw Hill 
9. Income tax Act 1961 as amended till date.  
 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
6247 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course:  3.3 (Finance) FINANCIAL MARKETS & SERVICES 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: This course is designed to provide the students with a conceptual 
understanding of how financial markets-work, how they are structured, and provide insight into 
the functioning of various components of financial market and distinctive financial services 
offered by financial institutions.  
Syllabus: 
Module 1:  Introduction to Primary Market: Meaning, fun ctions; Methods of floating new 
issues: (a) Public issue - process of public issue, prospectus, contents of prospectus, Red -herring 
prospectus, stock invest scheme, book -building-benefits and limitations of book building; (b) 
Bought out deals; (c) Rights Is sue- procedure for rights issue; (d) Private placement and 
preferential offer. Parties involved in the new issue market, Government and statutory agencies, 
collection centres. Pricing of new issue and SEBI guidelines; SEBI and investor protection in the 
primary market. 
Module 2:  Introduction to Secondary Market: Meaning and importance; organization of stock 
exchanges; listing of securities in stock exchanges- listing requirements, listing procedure, listing 
application, listing agreements; trading mechani sm- open outcry system, screen based trading, 
online-trading WAP (Wireless Application Protocol) trading, the process of buying and selling 
shares, types of orders, share groups; settlement - Fixed settlement system, Rolling settlement. 
Risk Management; Margins-VaR (Value of Risk) based margin, mark to market margin, margins 
based on turnover, exposure limits, Gross exposure limits, violation charges, price bands; carry 
forward transactions. Individual stock quotations; stock market indices. Brief on Stock M arkets 
in India. 
Module 3: Introduction to  Financial Services:  Introduction to Financial Services: Meaning & 
Definition, Nature, Scope and Characteristics, Classification, Importance of Financial Services for 
Economic Development, Fund Based & Fee Based F inancial Services, New Financial Products 
and Services, Challenges facing the Financial Service Sector. 
Module 4 : Mutual Funds & Venture Capital: Introduction to Mutual Funds – Meaning, 
Definition, Scope, Types, Importance, Risks, Net Asset Value, Mutual Fund in India & Abroad, 
Performance of Mutual Fund Industry in India. Introduction to Venture Capital – Meaning, 
Definition, Scope, Importance, Methods of Venture Financing, SWOC of Venture Capital, 
Growth of Venture Capital in India. 
Module 5: Credit Rat ing & Emerging Technology:  Introduction to Credit Rating, Meaning & 
Definition, Features, Need, Process, Agencies of Credit Rating, Rating Framework, Factors 
considered for Rating and Types of Rating, Pros & Cons, Credit Rating in India, International 
Rating Agencies, Use of AI in Financial Services. 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. Dalton, John M: How the stock markets works, Practice Hall, Delhi. 
2. Machiraju H R: Working of Stock Exchanges in India, Wiley Eastern Ltd, New Delhi. 
3. Gupta L. C.: Stock Exchange Trading in India Society for Market Research and 
Development, Delhi. 
4. Raghunatham V: Stock Exchange and Investments, Tata, McGrawHill, New Delhi 
5. Gorden & Nataraj: Financial Markets and Services, Himalaya Publishing House 
6. Avadhani: Investment and securities markets in India, Himalaya Publishing House 
7. Khan M Y: Indian Financial System, Tata McGraw Hill, New Delhi. 
6348 
 
8. Giddy I H: Global Financial Markets, AITBS New-Delhi. 
9. Preethi Singh: Investment Management, Himalaya Publishing house 
10. Guruswamy, S: Financial services, Vijay Nicole imprints, Chennai. 
11. P.K. Sahoo, Financial Services and markets, Himalaya 
12. I.M. Pondey Venture Capital; The Indian Experience Prentice Hall, New Delhi. 
13. J.K. Dietrich, Financial Services and Financial Institution, Prentice Hall. 
14. Sashi. K. Gupta & Nisha Aggarwal, Financial Services, Kalyani Publication 
 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
 
6449 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course:  3.4 (Finance) FINANCIAL PLANNING  
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes:   The Course in Financial Planning intent to enable critical thinking in 
students with respect to analysis and application of innovative solutions to varied financial 
problems and make plan as per their financial situation. 
Syllabus: 
Module 1: Introduction to Financial Planning: Introduction, Meaning & Definition, Golden 
Rules of Financial Plan, Objectives, Process & Stages, Characteristics, Functions, Importance, 
1H & 4W approach  on Financial Plan, Financial Planning for Individual & Organisation, Life 
Cycle Approach, Formulation of Financial Plan, Financial Planning in India. Introduction to 
Financial Goals, Salient Features of Financial Goals, Stages of Financial Goals. 
Module 2: Introduction to Investment Avenues: Introduction to Investment Avenues, Risk 
and Return Analysis of: Direct Equity, Equity & Debt Mutual Funds, National Pension Scheme, 
Public Provident Fund, Provident Fund, Pension Fund, Bank Savings Account, Bank Fixe d 
Deposit Account, Bank Recurring Deposit Account, Senior citizens’ savings scheme, Pradhan 
Mantri Vaya Vandana Yojana (PMVVY), Real Estate, Precious Metals like Gold & Silver, RBI 
Taxable Bonds,  Unit Linked Insurance Plans (ULIPs),  Equity Linked Savings  Scheme (ELSS), 
IPO, FPO, Gold Exchange Traded Funds (ETF),  Unit Linked Insurance Plans (ULIPs), 
Sovereign Gold Bond Scheme, Commodities, Insurance Products, and others. 
 
Module 3: Developing Financial Plan: Introduction to Financial Plan, Meaning & Defi nition, 
Critical analysis of Investment Opportunities, Risks in Financial Plan, Risk Assessment of 
Individual and Companies in general. Steps in Financial Plan, Factors considered for Financial 
Plan, Evaluation & Revision of Financial Plan. 
Module 4 : Retirement & Tax Benefits: Introduction, Meaning & Definition, Objectives, 
Importance, Types of Retirement Plans, Savings Pattern for Retirement Benefits, how to plan 
your Retirement? Retirement Plans in India. Introduction to Tax Benefit Schemes, Meaning, 
Types, Benefits, Tax Benefit Plans in India. 
Module 5: Chartered Financial Planner & Analysts: Introduction, Meaning & Definition, 
Objectives, Characteristics of Chartered Financial Planner and Analyst,  Steps in Financial 
Planning, Importance, Organisational  Hierarchy. Factors to be considered for Investment & 
revision of portfolio, employment opportunities for Financial Planner & Analysts in India and 
abroad. 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. Sinha, “Financial Planning: A Ready Reckoner”, McGraw Hill Publications 
2. Dr. Pradip Kumar Sinha & Dr. Ajit S. Thite, “  Personal Financial Planning 
Management”, Nirali Prakashan  
3. Buffet, Marry and Clark, David . Warren Buffett and the Interpretation of Financial 
Statement.  Unit(s) - I, II.  
4. Fisher, A. Philip . Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits. Wiley.   
5. Unit(s)- I, II Graham, Benjamin . The Intelligent Investor. Unit(s) - I, II  Keown, A. J. 
(2017). Personal Finance – Turning money into wealth. Pearson Publication, Unit(s) - III, 
V  
 
 
6550 
 
6. Khurshed, Arif ; Initial Public Offerings: The mechanics and performance of IPOs, 
Harriman House Publishing.   
7. Unit(s) - IV Madura, Jeff ; Personal Finance. Pearson. Unit(s) I, III, V  
8. Soota, A shok and Gopalan, S. R.; Entrepreneurship Simplified: From Idea to IPO. 
Penguin Random House India.  Unit(s) -  IV Spier, Guy (2014). The Education of Value 
Investor. Palgrave. Unit(s) - I, II . 
 
 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
6651 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course:  3.5 (Finance) INNOVATIONS IN BANKING & TECHNOLOGY 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: The students can understand the crux of core banking solutions and 
applications of cognitive banking and technology on Banking Operations. 
Syllabus: 
Module 1:  Introduction to Banks: Bank, Banker, Banking, Evolution, Role of Banking System in 
India, Classification, Objectives, Functions, Schedule v/s Non -Schedule, Public v/s Private, 
Traditional v/s Modern Payment Banks, Banking System in India. 
Module 2: Core Banking:  Introduction, Meaning & Definition, Characteristics, Pros and Cons, 
Evolution of Bank Management - Technological Impact in Banking Operations - Total Branch 
Computerization - Concept of Opportunities - Centralized B anking - Concept, Opportunities, 
Challenges & Implementation.   
Module 3: Cognitive Banking:  Introduction, Meaning & Definition, Characteristics, Pros and 
Cons, Fintech Technologies in Banking – Industrialisation 4.0, Artificial Intelligence, Cognitive 
Banking, Blockchain Technology and Cloud Computing: How it works? Cognitive Analytics, AI 
Tools in Banking Industry, Robotics in Banks. 
Module 4:  Technology in Banking– Plastic Card, Wireless / Wired Point of Sale Machines, Bar 
Code & QR Code Payment,  Re cent developments in Payment Systems, e -KYC, Truncated 
Cheque, NFS, MICR, EFT, ECS, NEFT, RTGS, IMPS, AEPS, USSD, UPI, E-Wallet, Mobile Point of 
Sale, M-Banking Services and Nano Banking. 
Module 5: Frauds in Banking Industry: Introduction, Types of Frauds , Issues in online and 
offline Banking System, Financial Scams, Online Scams, Precautionary Measures to be taken by 
Banks and Customers, OTP, TTP, Security measures by Banks in India. 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. Ramashish Purvey, New Dimensions of Indian Banking, Serials Publications. 
2. M. Revathy Sriram,  P. K. Ramanan,  R. Chandrasekhar, “Core Banking Solution – 
Evaluation of Security and Controls”, PHI learning private limited. 
3. Indian Institute of Banking & Finance ; Advanced Bank Management, Macmillan 
publication. 
4. Indian Institute of Banking & Finance; Principles & Practices of Banking. Macmillan 
Publication. 
5. Jessica, K. Financial Services Information Systems (2 ed.). Auerback publications 
6. Indian Institute of Banking & Finance, Bank Financial Management, Macmillan 
publication. 
7. Srivastava, & Divya, Nigam, Management of Indian Financial Institutions, Himalaya 
Publishing House. 
8. Vasant, Joshi &Vinay, Joshi, Managing Indian Banks - Challenges Ahead, sage 
publications. 
9. M. Y. Khan, Indian Financial System, Tata McGraw Hill. 
10. O.P, Bhat& K. K, Saxena, Bank marketing, skylark publications. 
11. https://blog.gft.com/blog/2019/02/11/cognitive-banking-building-the-bank-of-the-
future/ 
12. https://tearsheet.co/wtf/wtf-is-cognitive-banking/ 
13. https://personetics.com/cognitive-banking/ 
14. https://www.finextra.com/blogposting/15588/top-5-fintech-and-banking-trends--
cognitive-banking-enables-ai-to-create-solutions-based-on-bigdata 
6752 
 
15. RBI Manuals to be Referred. 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
6853 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course:  4.1 BUSINESS ANALYTICS 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: On successfu l completion of the course, the student can understand the 
importance of analytics in business and application of various tools and techniques to 
evaluate the performance by generating reports.  
Syllabus: 
Module 1: Introduction to Analytics: Introduction, Meaning & Definition, Characteristics, 
Applications of Analytics, Meaning of Business Analytics, SWOC of Analytics, Importance of 
Analytics, Tools & Techniques of Analytics, Functions of Analytics, Reports in Analytics, 
Relevance of Analytics in Business, Latest Softwares for Business Analytics.  
Module 2: HR Analytics:  Introduction, Meaning & Definition, Features, Objectives, 
Importance, Functions, Types of HR Analytics,  Employee Performance Evaluation, Employee 
Attrition Rate, Recruitment Analytics, C ompensation Analytics, Talent Analytics, Training 
Analytics, Workforce Analytics, Role of Analytics in HRD as a whole, Potential Application of 
Analytics in HR Department Relevance of HR Analytics in Business ,  Latest Softwares for HR 
Analytics. 
Module 3:  Marketing Analytics :  Introduction, Meaning & Definition, Characteristics, 
Objectives, Importance, Functions, Types of Marketing Analytics, Buying Pattern Behaviour 
Analysis, Analysis of Trends, Identification of Target Audience, Advertising Techniques, 
Forecasting Demand & Supply, Segmentation, Marketing Mix Optimization, Competitor 
Analysis, Channel Analysis, Sales Performance Analysis, Campaign Analysis, Sales Pipeline 
Reporting, Use of Google Analytics in Marketing, Social Media and its relevance on 
Marketing Analytics,  Potential Application of Analytics in Marketing Department,   Latest  
Softwares for Marketing Analytics. 
Module 4: CRM Analytics: Introduction, Meaning & Definition, Characteristics, Objectives, 
Importance, Functions, Types of Customer  Analytics, e -CRM, m -CRM, Role of Analytics in 
CRM, Purchasing Pattern Analysis, Life Style of Customers, Loyalty Analytics, Customer Life 
Time Value, Propensity Analytics, Churn Analytics, Customer Segmentation, Cross - Sell or 
Upsell Models,  Analytics and  Innovation, Potential Application of Analytics in CRM, 
Relevance of CRM Analytics in Business, Latest Softwares for CRM Analytics. 
Module 5: Finance Analytics:   Introduction, Meaning & Definition, Characteristics, 
Objectives, Importance, Functions, Criti cal Financial Analytics, Risk based Pricing, Fraud 
Detection and Prediction, Recovery Management, Loss Forecasting, Risk Profiling, Portfolio 
Stress Testing, Potential Application of Analytics in Finance Department, Relevance of 
Financial Analytics in Busi ness, Latest Softwares for Finance Analytics(Simple Practical 
Applications of Financial Analytics for Business Decisions). 
 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References:  
1. Hastie, Trevor, et al.  The elements of statistical learning. Vol. 2. No. 1. New Yor k: 
springer. 
2. Montgomery, Douglas C., and George C. Runger. Applied statistics and probability for 
engineers. John Wiley & Sons. 
3. Tom White “Hadoop: The Definitive Guide” Third Edit on, O’reily Media. 
4. Seema Acharya, Subhasini Chellappan, "Big Data Analytics" Wiley. 
5. Michael Berthold, David J. Hand, "Intelligent Data Analysis”, Springer. 
6954 
 
 
6. Jay Liebowitz, “Big Data and Business Analytics” Auerbach Publications, CRC press. 
7. Tom Plunkett, Mark Hornick, “Using R to Unlock the Value of Big Data: Big Data 
Analytics with  Oracle R Enterprise and Oracle R Connector for Hadoop”, McGraw -
Hill/Osborne Media (2013), Oracle press. 
8. Anand Rajaraman and Jef rey David Ulman, “Mining of Massive Datasets”, Cambridge 
University Press. 
9. Bill Franks, “Taming the Big Data Tidal Wave: Findin g Opportunities in Huge Data 
Streams with Advanced Analytics”, John Wiley & sons, 2012. 
10. Michael Mineli, Michele Chambers, Ambiga Dhiraj, "Big Data, Big Analytics: Emerging 
Business Intelligence and Analytic Trends for Today's Businesses", Wiley Publications. 
11. ArvindSathi, “Big Data Analytics: Disruptive Technologies for Ch anging the Game”, 
MC Press. 
12. Paul Zikopoulos , Dirk DeRoos , Krishnan Parasuraman , Thomas Deutsch , James 
Giles , David Corigan , "Harness the Power of Big Data The IBM Big Data Platform ",  
Tata McGraw Hill Publications. 
13. Marketing Analytics by Wayne L Winston – “Data-driven techniques with Microsoft 
Excel. 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
7055 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course:  4.2 FORENSIC ACCOUNTING & AUDITING 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of the course, the Students will be to identify, 
analyse and interpret indicators of financially fraudulent act ivity and to explain investigative 
processes and the nature and range of investigative techniques, and identify situations for 
their application 
Syllabus: 
Module 1:  Forensic Accounting: Forensic Accounting: Meaning, Concept, Role of the 
professional for ensic accountant, Requirements of professional forensic accountant, 
Responsibilities of accounting investigators and auditors. Fraud – Introduction, Types of 
fraud, Reasons of fraud, Fraud cycle, Bank Fraud, Corporate Fraud, Insurance Fraud, Cyber 
Frauds, Securities Fraud, Consumer Frauds, Traits & behaviours of fraudsters, Targets of 
fraudsters, case studies. 
Module 2: Fraud Detection Techniques: Fraud detection techniques, Effective information 
gathering methods, Fraud risk factors, Professional analytic al procedures and techniques. 
Financial statement fraud – Meaning, Introduction, revenue recognition detection, ratio 
analysis, horizontal analysis, vertical analysis, cash flow analysis, case studies. 
Module 3: Fraud Risk Assessment : Profiling Fraudsters , Organisational profiling methods, 
Risk analysis & assessment, variety of risk assessment factors, best practices. Fraud risk 
prevention – meaning, importance, combatting actual instances of fraud, case studies. 
Module 4: Forensic Audit: Meaning and Sign ificance – Meaning of Audit – Audit: An 
Adhering Significance – Stages of Audit – Meaning of Forensic Audit – Significance of 
Forensic Audit – Key Benefits of Forensic Audit – Need and Objectives: Forensic Audit – 
Fraud and Forensic Audit: An Introspect – Forensic Audit vis-à-vis Audit. 
Module 5:  Audit and Investigations: Tools for handling Forensic Audit – Forensic Audit 
Thinking (Thinking Forensically) – Forensic Audit Procedures – Appropriate Use of 
Technology - Investigation Mechanism - Types of Inves tigations - Methods of Investigations: 
Computer Assisted Auditing Techniques (CAATs) and tools (CAATT) Generalized Audit 
Software (GAS), Common Software Tools (CST). Finding Facts and Conducting Investigations 
- Red Flags - Green Flags. 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References:  
1. Ibrahim Kabir (2016), Forensic Audit, Forensic Tools and Techniques for Internal 
Auditors.  
2. Pickett K H , The Internal Auditing Handbook, 3rd Edition, John Wiley and Sons, Inc.  
3. Shah Bhavesh , Basics about Forensic Accounting and Auditing, The LinkedIn 
4. Study on Forensic Accounting and Fraud Prevention, ICAI , NEW Delhi 
5. George A. Manning , Financial Investigation and Forensic Accounting, 3rd Edition, 
CRC Press. 
6. Gupta and Gupta (2015), Corporates Frauds in India – Perceptions and Emerging 
Issues, Journal of Financial Crime, 22(1): 79 -103. 
7. ICSI Study Material on Forensic Audit.  
 
8. Forensic Accounting and Fraud Examination by William Hopwood, Jay Leiner and 
George Young, McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. 
9. Forensic Accounting for Dummies, Fr imette Kass -Shraibman and Vijay Sampath, 
7156 
 
 
Wiley Publishers 5. A Guide to Forensic Accounting Investigation, Thomas Golden, 
Steven Skalak and Mona Clayton, Wiley Publishers  
10. Forensic Accounting and Fraud Examination, Mary -Jo Kranacher, Richard Riley and 
Joseph Wells, Wiley Publishers 
11. Bologana and Robert , Fraud Auditing and Forensic Accounting: New Tools and 
techniques, 2nd Edition. 
12. Gangully Jagdish (2015), Lecture Notes on Forensic Accounting Investigations, Acc 551 
at SUNY Albany. 
13. Silverstone and Pednea ult, Forensic Accounting and Fraud Investigation for Non -
Experts, 3rd Edition, ISBN-13: 978-0470879597. 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
7257 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course:  4.3 (Accounts)  CORPORATE REPORTING PRACTICES-II 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of the course, the Students will be able to 
understand the wide range of choices of accounting treatments in different parts of the world, 
their approaches to basic accounting issues and their choices of accounting rules. 
Syllabus: 
Module 1:  Interpretations of Financial Statements 
An overview of Annual Reports, Contents of Annual Report, Key Indicators of Financial a nd 
Non- Financial Performance, Nature and extent of Reportable segments, Disclosures of 
segment information, Management discussions and Analysis. 
Module 2:  Disclosures in the Financial Statements 
Ind AS 24  “Related Party Disclosures”, Ind AS 33  “Earnings per Share”, Ind AS 108  
“Operating Segments”, IND AS -34 “Interim Financial Reporting”, Ind AS 102 Share -based 
Payment (Note: Provisions & Practical Problems to be thought for all IND AS).                              
Module 3:  Accounting and Reporting of Financial Instruments 
Presentation of Financial Instruments (Ind AS 32) – Meaning, Financial Assets, Financial 
Liabilities - Presentation Recognition and Measurement of financial Instruments (Ind AS 39) – 
Initial and Subsequent Recognition and measurement  of Financial Assets and Financial 
Liabilities, Derecognition of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities -  Disclosures of 
Financial Instruments (Ind AS 107) 
(Note: Provisions & Practical Problems to be thought for all IND AS).                              
Module 4:  Business Combination and Corporate Restructuring 
Introduction-  Relevant Terms, Types of merger, methods of accounting, Recognition and 
Measurement Criteria as Per Ind AS (IND AS 103) treatment of Goodwill arising on merger, 
purchase consideration and settlement; Accounting in books of vendor/transferor company, 
Accounting for investment in subsidiary, Accounting for holding companies (including chain 
holdings, multiple holdings), Corporate Financial Restructuring (including intercompany 
holdings), Reconstruction schemes, De-merger. 
(Note: Provisions & Practical Problem to be thought) 
Module 5: Recent Developments in Financial Reporting:  
Triple bottom line reporting (TBL) – concept, benefits, implementation, forms, users, 
Challenges. Sustain ability Reporting - Concept, Forms, Benefits, Global Reporting Initiative 
(GRI). Corporate Social Responsibility - Meaning, importance, requirements and users of CSR 
Report, benefits, reading of CSR Report, Companies Act-2013 and CSR Policies, Evaluation of  
CSR reports, innovation in CSR Reporting. Value Added Statement, Economic Value Added, 
Market Value Added, Shareholders’ Value added, Human Resource Reporting  
(Provisions & Case Studies). 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. IFRS explained – A guide to International financial reporting standards by BPP 
learning Media 
2. IFRS: A Quick Reference Guide by Robert J. Kirk, Elsevier Ltd. 
3. A. K. Das Mohapatra, international Accounting, PHI Learning Pvt Ltd. 
7358 
 
 
 
 
4. Doupnik, T. S. & Perera, H. (2012). International accounting (3rd ed.). New York, NY: 
McGraw-Hill 
5. Choai FDS and Mueller G G, International Accounting, Prentice hall. 
6. Mucller G G, International Accounting Part I, Macmillan. 
7. Peter Holzerr H. et al, International Accounting, Harper and Row Publishers, New 
York. 
8. Sharokh Saudagaran, International Accounting, Thomson Learning. 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
7459 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course:  4.4 (Accounts) STRATEGIC COST MANAGEMENT – II 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of the course, the Students will be able to 
understand the external environment of business and to enable them to formulate strategies 
relating to cost and pricing. 
Syllabus: 
Module 1:  Pricing Strategies in Decision Making: Pricing strategies: Pricing policy, process, 
Role and methods: cost plus pricing, Marginal cost pricing, pricing for target rate of return, 
added value method of pricing, diff erential cost pricing going rate pricing, opportunity cost 
pricing, standard cost pricing, customary pricing, pricing strategy for Export oriented 
products, methods of export pricing, pricing strategies for new products, management 
accountant role in product pricing.(Problems to be taught for all the pricing methods) 
Module 2: Transfer Pricing: Transfer Pricing – meaning, necessity, Objectives, applications, 
Methods (Cost Based, Market Price Based and Negotiated Pricing), Advantages and 
Disadvantages, Crit eria for setting Transfer Prices, Guiding Principles in the fixation of 
transfer prices, Transfer Price in different situations. International transfer pricing: meaning, 
factors affecting international transfer pricing. (Problem to be taught) 
Module 3: Learning Curve Theory: Introduction, meaning and definition of learning curve, 
phases in learning curve, applications of learning curve, factors affecting learning curve, 
comparison between learning curve and experience curve. (Problem to be taught) 
Module 4:  Cost of Quality and TQM: Definition, classification of quality costs, cost of 
Conformance, Prevention costs, appraisal costs, cost of Non -conformance, optimization of 
quality cost, TQM Core concepts of TQM, Benefits of TQM. TQM –basics, stages, princip les, 
control, corrective actions, PRAISE - steps, problems, implementation Cost of quality report 
Continuous process improvement. 
 
Module 5: Balanced Scorecard and Benchmarking: BSC: Introduction, drawback of 
traditional financial measures, attributes to g ood performance measurement system, concept 
of balanced score card, perspectives of B.SC and implementation of Balanced score Card, case 
studies on BSC. Benchmarking – Concepts, Benchmarking process, Impact on Indian 
Industry, Types of Benchmarking. 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. Ravi. M. Kishore, Cost Management, Taxman, Allied Services (p) Ltd., 
2. Sharma &Shashi. K Gupta ; Cost & Management Accounting Kalyani Publishers 
3. Arora M N – A Text book of Cost & Management Accounting, Vikas Publishi ng, New 
Delhi 
4. Lal Jawahar, Srivastava Seema. Cost Accounting, 5thEdition, Tata Mcgraw-Hill, Delhi 
5. S.K.R. Paul, Management Accounting, New Central Book Agency Private Ltd., Calcutta. 
6. Horngren T. Charles, Datar M. Srikant and Rajan V. Madhav. (2014) Cost Acc ounting: 
A Managerial Emphasis, 15th Edition, Prentice Hall publishers, Delh 
7. Roger Cowe, Hand Book of Management Accounting, A Grower Handbook. 
8. S. Mukherjee & A.P. Roychowdhury, Advanced Cost and Management Accountancy, New 
Central Book Agency, Calcutta. 
9. Brown &Haward, Mac Donald , Evans, Principles of Management Accountancy, London. 
7560 
 
10. John K. Shank, Cases in Cost Management: A Strategic Emphasis, South-Western 
Publishing, Thomson Learning. 
 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
7661 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course:  4.5 (Accounts) CUSTOMS DUTY and GST 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of the course, students will be able to understand 
the GST law in the country and provide an insight into practical aspects of GST and equip 
them to become tax practitioners. 
Syllabus: 
Module 1: Introduction to GST      
Introduction to GST - GST Acts - Meaning-Definition-Objectives-Features-Need a nd Benefits - 
Dual GST Model - Classification of Goods and Services: Taxable – exempted–Composition 
Scheme - Rates of GST- Registration: CGST, KGST (Karnataka State) and IGST Acts, 2017.  
GST Network (GSTN) – Goods and Services Tax Suvidha Providers (GSP) – GSP Eco system. 
(Provisions only) 
 Module 2:  Levy and Collection of GST    
Supply under sec 7  – Relevant definitions – supply for further business - supply without 
consideration, composite and mixed supplies - Place of supply. 
Time and Value of supply of  Goods u/s 12 and Services u/s 13: Relevant definitions- time of 
supply of goods u/s 12 services u/s 13, forward charge and reverse charge, vouchers for 
exchangeable goods, residual goods, interest and late fee for delayed payment u/s 12(6), Value 
of supply u/s 15- inclusions u/s 15(2) a,b,c,d – exclusions u/s 15(3), supply where value can’t 
be determined and notified supplier, related person supply. Methods of Valuation of Goods 
and Services- Problems including Composition levy. 
(Provisions and Practical Problem) 
Module 3: Input Tax Credit:       
Relevant definitions- Eligibility and conditions for claiming credit – Apportionment of credits 
and blocked credit – Credit on Capital goods – Availability of credit in special circumstances – 
Transfer of Input ta x credit – Claim of Input tax credit – Matching, reversal and reclaim of 
Input tax credit, Recovery of Input tax credit and interest there on – Taking input tax credit in 
respect of inputs sent for job work. – Problems on claiming Input Tax Credit and Asse ssment 
of Tax Liability.(Provisions and Practical Problem) 
Module 4: Procedure and Administration Under GST:   
All procedures including registration, tax invoice, credit and debit notes, electronic way bill, 
accounts and records, returns (GSTRs), payment of tax including reverse charge, refund, job 
work-Provisions relating to electronic commerce -Liability to pay in certain cases 
Administration of GST; Assessment and Audit - Inspection, Search, Seizure and Arrest 
Demand and Recovery -Offences and Penalties -Advance Ruling - Appeals and Revision.  
(Provisions Only) 
Module 5: Customs Act, 1962:       
Introduction to customs duty  - Customs Procedures – levy and collection of customs duty - 
exemptions from customs duties – Methods of Valuation of Customs Duty [includ ing anti -
dumping and safe guard duty] -  Baggage –Recent Amendments to Customs– Problems. 
Detailed procedure in relation to transportation and warehousing – relevant rules and 
regulations. Drawbacks of customs duties paid – Preparation and submission of dr awback 
claim forms. Adjudication and appeals before the customs authorities and the appellate 
Tribunal.(Provisions and Practical Problem) 
7762 
 
 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. GST Acts and Rules as amended till date 
2. V S Datey, Indirect Taxes Law and Practice, Taxmann Publications, New Delhi 
3. CA Anoop Modi and CA Mahesh Gupta, GST and Customs Law: SBPD Publication 
4. Dr. H C Mehrotra, Prof. V P Agarwal, Goods and Services Tax and Customs Duty Sahitya 
Bhavan Publications. 
5. B.K. Ghargava, Indirect Tax Laws, Taxman Allied Services. 
6. V.S. Datey, U.K. Bhargava, Indirect Tax Law and Practice. 
7. Commercial’s GST, Commercial law publisher (India) Pvt Ltd, New Delhi. 
8. Datey V.S.: GST Ready Reckoner, Taxman Publication, New Delhi 
9. Koolwal, Ashish & Rit u: Goods and Serv ices Tax ; Commercial Law Publisher (India) Pvt. 
Ltd. 
10. Patel, Chaudhary: Indirect Taxes, Chaudhary Publication, Jaipur 
11. Goel Pankaj, GST Ready Referencer, Commercial Law Publisher (India) Pvt. Ltd. 
12. Rastogi, Abhishek: Professionals guide to GST Ideation to reality. 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
7863 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course: 4.3 (Finance) FOREX MANAGEMENT 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: The purpose of this course is to give the students an exposure to the way 
foreign Exchange Market operates, to understand the principles of Currency valuation, 
techniques that can be used to hedge foreign exchange risk and to create an understanding on 
foreign exchange Management in India. 
Syllabus: 
Module 1:  Elements for Foreign Exchange:  International Monetary Systems: Concept, Gold 
standard, Fixed Exchange Rates, Flexible Exchange Rates, Managed Float System, 
Fluctuations in Foreign Exchange Rate:  Causes and Effects - Need for stability in Foreign 
Exchange Rate. Introduction to Forex, Evolution, Importance, Features & Objectives, Foreign 
Exchange Market, Intermediaries, Exchange Rate Forecasting.  
 
 
Module 2: Determination of Exchange Rates:  Types of Foreign Exchange Risks, Factors 
affecting exchange rates - International trade - Theories of determination of foreign exchange 
rates - The Law of One Price, Purchasing Power Parity, Interest Rate Parity, Flow Model, 
Asset Market Model. Balance of paym ent theory - Forecasting Forex Rates, Technical 
Forecasts, Economic Models, forecasting of fixed exchange rates from convertible currencies. 
Nominal Effective Exchange Rates and real Effective Exchange rates, Impact of exchange rate 
on BOP - Remedial measures taken by Government & Regulatory Authorities in India.  
 
 
Module 3: Forex Trading & Contracts: Forex trading infrastructure and networks, control's 
on order placing, direct and indirect quotas, cross rates, speculation, exchange arithmetic 
psychology of the forex trader, computerized trading programme, information analysis of 
trading, Problems on Direct and Indirect Quotes. Contracts - Hedging against Exchange Rate 
Fluctuations: Forwards, Options & Swaps – Problems. 
Module 4:  Exchange Payments: Cash and Spot Exchange Markets, Eurocurrency Markets, 
The Role of Commercial Banks, Mechanics of Making Foreign Payment, SWIFT, LERMS, 
Costs Associated with International payments, Basket of Currencies. 
 
 
Module 5: Forex Risk Management – Meaning & Definition,  Importance, Objectives, 
Features, Methods, Applications. Hedging, Speculation and Management of types of 
exposures in Forex Market. Using forward markets for hedging – hedging with money 
market, currency options and currency futures: problems. Internal & External Hedging 
Strategies – speculation in foreign exchange and money markets.  
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. Alan C Shapiro, Multi National Financial Management, 
2. Clare C Gump, ABC of Foreign Exchange 
3. Krishnamoorthy S, Guide to Foreign Exchange Regulations 
4. Chaterjee A K, Principles of Foreign Exchanger 
5. RAjwadi, Foreign Exchange Management 
6. Keith Red Head, Financial Derivatives 
7. V V Keshkamat , Foreign Exchange Arithematic, – Vivek Publications ,Mumbai 
8. C Jeevandam, Foreign Exchange Arithematic and Risk Management, – Sulthanchand & 
Sons 9. 
7964 
 
 
9. B K Chaudhuri, Finance of Foreign Trade and Foreign Exchange – Himalaya 
Publishing House 
10. Harris Manville, International Finance. 
11. Madhu Vij, International Finance. 
12. Keith Pibean, International Finance. 
13. Avadhani B.K, International Finance Theory and Practice. 
14. R.M Srivastava , Multinational Financial Management. 
15. P.A. Apte, International Financial Management. 
16. Bndar D.C, International Finance. 
17. Murthy E.N, International Finance & Risk Management. 
18. M.L. Verma, Foreign Trade & Management in India. 
19. Rao and Chary, International Finance. 
20. Ramachandra & Others ; International Finance 
21. Shapiro Alan. C., Multinational Financial Management, Prentice Hall, New Delhi. 
22. Apte P.G, International Financial Management, Tata McGraw Hill, New Delhi. 
23. Mcrae T.N and D.P Walkar, Foreign Exchange Management, Prentice Hall. 
24. Evilt H.E, Manual of Foreign Exchange. 
25. Holgate H.C.F, Exchange Arithmetic. 
26. Rajwade A.V., Foreign Exchange Risk Management, Prentice Hall of India 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
8065 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course: 4.4 (Finance) SECURITY ANALYSIS & PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes: On successful completion of the course, the students will get to know the 
terms such as common stock, stock market, stock options, and approaches to investing in the 
stock market and building stock portfolios. It also  provides a basic introduction to portfolio 
theory and study on various portfolio modelling associated with risks. 
Syllabus: 
Module 1: Introduction to Securities : Investment – Meaning & Definition, Types or Avenues 
of Investment, Investment v/s Gambling v/s Speculation v/s Arbitration v/s Hedging, 
Factors to be considered for Investment, Investment Policy, Risk and Return Analysis, Types of 
Risk Appetite, Types of Risks in Investment, Sources of Risk, Risk Measurement – Standard 
Deviation, Covariance, Beta, Correlation (problems), Legal framework and  Regulatory cover 
for Investment in India. 
Module 2: Security Analysis:  Introduction to Fixed and Variable Income Securities, Equity 
Valuation Models, Fixed Income Securities Valuation Models: Bonds, Introduction to – 
Fundamental Analysis, Economic Analy sis, Industry Analysis, Company Analysis, Technical 
Analysis – Modern Tools for Technical Analysis – Line, Point and Figure, Candlestick, Renko 
Chart, Heikin Ashi, etc. Price Patterns of Stock, Price Trends of Stock, Practical explanation on 
Technical Indicators used in Stock Market. Dow Theory & Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH) 
– Meaning and Types.  
Module 3: Introduction to Portfolio Management & Models:  Meaning of Portfolio 
Management, Need, Objectives, Process, Selection of Securities, Harry Markowit z Optimum 
Portfolio Theory, Capital Asset Pricing Model, CML, SML, Beta Factor – Alpha and Beta 
Coefficient – Problems, Sharpe Single Index Model (Theory), Arbitrage Pricing Theory, 
Principle of Arbitrage, Arbitrage Portfolios; Two Factor and Multi Factor Models. 
Module 4: Portfolio Evaluation & Revision:   Portfolio Evaluation Strategies - Sharpe Model – 
Jensen Model – Treynor Model and MM Model – Problems Portfolio Revision, Active and 
Passive Management, Formula Plans, Measure of Return, Risk Adjusted Me asures of 
Performance Evaluation, Market Timing, Evaluation Criteria and Procedures. Recent 
development in strategies. 
Module 5: Global Markets:  Global Investment Benefits – Introduction to ADRs, GDRs, IDRs, 
Green Bond, Masala Bond, FCCBs, Externa Commer cial Borrowings, Foreign Bonds, Global 
Mutual Funds – Relationship between Trends in Global Markets and the Domestic Markets, 
International Investing, International Funds Management, Emerging Opportunities. 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. A. Brahmiah & P. Subba Rao, Financial Futures and Options, HPH. 
2. Kevin, S. (2010). Security Analysis and Portfolio Management. (2 ed.). New Delhi: PHI 
learning Pvt Ltd. 
3. Singh Preeti, Investment Management, HPH 
4. Alexander Fundamental of Investments, Pearson Ed. 
5. Hangen: Modern Investment theory. Pearson Ed. 
6. Kahn: Technical Analysis – Plain and sample Pearson Ed. 
7. Alexander, shampe and Bailey – Fundamentals of Investments Prentice Hall of India 
8. Newyork Institute of Finance – How the Bond Market work – PHI. 
9. Mayo – Investment Thomason hearning 
8166 
 
10. Pandian, P. (2005). Security analysis and portfolio management. (2ed.). Noida: Vikas 
publishing house Pvt Ltd. 
11. Bhat, S. (2008). Security analysis and portfolio management. (1 ed.). New Delhi: Excel 
Books. 
12. Chandra. (2011). Secur ity Analysis and Portfolio Management. (4 ed). New Delhi: Tata 
McGraw Hill Publishing company. 
13. Ranganatham, M., & Madhumathi, R. (2004). Investment analysis and portfolio 
management. (4 ed.). New Delhi: Pearson Education 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
8267 
 
Name of the Program: Master of Commerce  
Name of the Course: 4.5 (Finance)  STRATEGIES FOR BANKING RISK AND    
MARKETING MANAGEMENT 
Course Credits No. of Hours per Week  Total No. of Teaching Hours 
4 Credits 4 Hrs 60 Hrs 
Course Outcomes:  The objective of this course is to provide an insight of Risk and Marketing 
Management in Managerial Decision Making of Banking Industry. 
Syllabus: 
Module 1:  KYC, AML and Account Opening Process 
Importance of KYC and AML, Why RBI insists on KYC procedu res, The role of Banks in 
implementing KYC, penalties for non -adherence; Different stages of money laundering, 
Understand the importance of AML at the time of account opening;  Customer acceptance 
policy: low, medium and high risk customers; Customer verifi cation procedure, KYC 
documents required for account opening, verification process; Account opening formalities, 
forms, documents, procedures; Risk management ,KYC, AML – monitoring transactions and 
reporting of suspicious transactions 
 
Module 2: CASA Deposits  
Meaning; Importance; Features and Benefits; Understand what are CASA deposits; Importance 
of CASA deposits for banks ; Impact on profitability of banks;  Features and benefits of current 
accounts, savings accounts and their variants; Transactions, s ervices and channels offered by 
banks for CASA account holders;  Benefits of CASA deposits to customers 
Module 2:  Banking Services to CASA Customers, Cross Sell Products Investments and 
Loans. 
Service channels – branch, ATM, internet, mobile banking; Pay ment and collection services – 
cheques, electronic funds transfers, cash management, cheque clearing;  Ancillary services – 
locker and safe custody, payment of taxes and bills; Financial services – Sale of insurance 
mutual funds, gold coins, Government bon ds; Depository services – Demat and web trade; 
Wealth management; Foreign exchange ; Principles of lending, concepts, regulations ; Retail 
lending – secured and unsecured; Home loan, car loan, loan against securities, Credit cards, 
personal loan and  educa tional loan ;Business credit – working capital and term loan. Over 
draft cash credit, term loans, fund based and non -fund based; Priority sector lending – Agri 
credit, MSME ;  NPA management 
Module 3:   Strategies for Increasing CASA Deposits through Sales and Marketing 
Identify the targets and goals product wise for the year and for each month ; Plan the 
marketing mix for achieving the goals - segmenting targeting products positioning, resource 
planning ; Plan promotional activities to spread awareness;  C ollaborate with the team for 
assigning individual targets, review and performance support; Catchment mapping – Identify 
the area covered by the branch, identify different segments of customers, potential for 
business, banking needs, competition; Promotiona l activities and campaign for lead 
generation; Recording of leads, Understand the sales funnel, follow up suspects, identify 
prospect; Field visit route map – Plan the route and customer visits per day; Sales call review 
and monitoring 
Module 4:  Selling Skills and Customer Relationship Management 
Continuous self - improvement Positive attitude, updated knowledge professional attire, 
etiquette, behavior, communication skills; Understanding customer segments and needs – 
Profiling of customers, analyzing cust omer’s financial goals, needs and banking transactions, 
identifying appropriate products to satisfy the needs; Sales process – Pre sale – fixing up 
appointments preparing the sales kit - Sales execution – Follow the five steps – opening, 
8368 
 
 
 
 
************************************************************* 
developing a need, proposing products based on benefits; Handing objections, different types 
of customers, practice the art of probing, listening and persuasion; Practice different type of 
closure, close the sale; Post – sale analysis, follow – up and service; Account opening – assist in 
documentation, completion of f ormalities and activation of account handing over account 
opening kit to client, explain how to use the features, explain fees and charges; Understanding 
customer needs and cross sealing appropriate products that satisfy the needs of customers; 
Customer se rvice management – handing complaints, resolving issues; Building win -win 
relationships, balance compliance with service 
 
Suggested Books/Articles/Links for References: 
1. Uppal RK, Rimpi Kaur, Banking Sector Reforms in India, New Century Publications, N ew 
Delhi 
2. Agarwal OP, Banking and Insurance, Himalaya Publishing House, Mumbai 
3. Vijayaragavan Iyengar, Introductioin to Banking, Excel Books, New Delhi 
4. The Indian Institute of Bankers, Modern Banking, Mumbai 
5. Indian Institute of Banking and Finance, Risk Management, Mumbai 
Note: Latest edition of text books may be used. 
8485868788899091929394