Padmashree Institute of Management & Sciences Autonomous | Kommaghatta

Padmashree Institute of Management & Sciences Autonomous | Kommaghatta Apply Now 2026 Admissions 2026-27 Admission for PG/UG/Diploma Courses For Apply Online: https://admissions.pims.org.in/ Call 96321 71973 Contact 78994 08181 WhatsApp Click Here to pay
        Online Examination Fee
        payment Admissions Open Apply Now Overseas Students’ Admissions 100% Placement Assistance Campus Life 25+ Years of service 15+ Affiliations 60+ Courses 250+ Professors 3,000+ Students UG Courses Padmashree institutions have a variety of undergraduate courses that students can choose from based on their interests and passions. PG Courses Discover an array of specialized PG courses tailored to enhance your expertise and propel your career to new heights. Diploma Courses Diploma courses are shorter programs that assist students in specializing in a specific skill and entering the workforce quickly. After 10th, 12th, graduation, or post-graduation, they have the option of being pursued. Job Oriented/Vocational Programs Padmashree is offering various skill upgrading and job-oriented courses under DDU Kaushal Kendra recognized by UGC, New Delhi Updates < Bangalore University Toppers | Sahana M.S. Celebrating our shining stars: Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers! Bangalore University Toppers | DIVYASREE N. Celebrating our shining stars: Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers! SUSHMITHA R S Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! VANITHA MATHAVA Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! NETHRA RAMESH Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! YASHWANT DHANANJAY PARDESHI Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! PALGIRI YASHWANTH Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! PAVANA N Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! JAYASHREE B Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! NIKHITA NALAWADE Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! AASHIMA MOHINI Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! KEERTHANA M Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! VASUMATHI SRI P Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! YERRABOGULA SHANMUKA PADMA Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! VULLI LAKSHMI PRIYANKA Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! P NISSIE CAROLINE Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! MOTHE NIKITHA Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! MEGHA T P Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! PANCHAMI M SHETTY Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! NAZARE SAI CHANDAR RAO SRINIDHI Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! SUSHMA B R Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! DIVYADHARSHINI SANTHAKUMAR Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! NISHA DEY Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! ARJUN REJI Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! BHARGAVI S Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! CHITTEMSETTY SUPRIYA Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! THADIPATHRI PUSHPALATHA Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! PANDUGA SAHITHI REDDY Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! SUBASHREE R Honoring excellence and brilliance: Our Proud Gold Medalists and Top University Achievers, setting new standards of success! > Vision We want the education by which character is formed, strength
                                of mind
                                is increased,
                                the intellect is
                                expanded, and by which one can stand on one’s own feet. – Swami Vivekananda Mission PIMS is dedicated To foster intellectual growth and character development. To inculcate the idea of lifetime learning process. To provide education that transform lives, build communities that improve society. To assert skill development leading to self-sustainability. To develop scientific temper amongst faculty and students. To develop leadership qualities that enhances collaborative approach, professional
                            relationships
                            with industry and research organisations. Core Values Contributing to societal development Promoting teamwork and inculcating values Holistic development of students Pursuit of academic excellence Affiliations and Accreditations Affiliated to: Bangalore University Recognized by: UGC under 2(f) 12(b) NAAC A++ Announcements Admission Started 2025-26 Admission Started for UG / PG / Diploma Courses. View More Millet Confluence 2023 An Extravaganza of Ideas and Innovations View More Padmashree Group of Institutions: A Beacon of Academic Excellence in Bangalore Padmashree Group of Institutions upgraded as an Autonomous Institution under the Bangalore University View More Events Career Explore Discover Dynamic Career Pathways in Life Sciences, Food, Nutrition & Technology View More BiodHRona Webinar Series - 2 Career Diksuchi 
Discover Careers in Clinical Nutrition, Food Science, Food Technology & Life Sciences 
4th September, Thursday 2025, 11:00 – 12:00 AM View More National Ayurveda Day 2025 23 rd September 2025 
Time : 11: 00am – 1:00 pm | Venue : Seminar hall, Science block View More B.Sc. Food Technology B.Sc. Food Technology is an undergraduate degree program that focuses on the scientific principles behind food processing, preservation, and packaging View More If you're interested in
                        staying up-to-date with the
                        latest trends and evolution in adevelopment of life sciences in general and Nutraceuticals
                        industry, following relevant blogs can be a great way to do so. Many blogs are run by experts or
                        enthusiasts who are passionate about their subject matter and who regularly produce new content,
                        such as articles, videos, and podcasts, that can provide valuable insights and information. Featured Course Oriented B.Sc. Microbiology is a study of microorganisms BSc Microbiology is a study of microorganisms this includes various organisms like a unicellular, cluster of microscopic animals, viruses, bacteria, and fungi. B.Voc. Food Processing and Nutraceuticals What is Food Processing?
Food processing is the branch of Food Science, where a set of techniques and methods are used to change the raw ingredients into prepared food. It is a procedure in which food is prepared for consumption purposes by humans and animals. Trendy avenues in Biotech Trendy avenues in Biotech
Biotechnology is an advanced course that has evolved as an integration of biology, computation and engineering. It is one of the recently emerged courses that has grown drastically in technology. B.Voc Medical Biotechnology Medical biotechnology is a branch of medicine that uses living cells and cell materials to research and then produce pharmaceutical and diagnosing products. These products help treat and prevent diseases. B.Sc. Genetics Genetics is the scientific study of genes and heredity—of how certain qualities or traits are passed from parents to offspring as a result of changes in DNA sequence. BCA - Computer Science Computer science is the study of computers and computing, including their theoretical and algorithmic foundations, hardware and software, and their uses for processing information. Microbiology Microbiology is the scientific study of microorganisms, those being unicellular, multicellular, or cellular. Biotechnology It is a good career choice because Biotechnology is a booming career option with its demand emerging in sectors such as pharmaceutical, animal husbandry, agriculture, healthcare, medicine, genetic engineering, etc. Besides, biotechnologists are paid well for the work they do. Therefore, it is definitely a good career option. Food Technology There are wide opportunities in this field for students who wish to pursue a course in food technology. B.Voc. Food Technology and Quality Management Food technology is the application of food science to the selection, preservation, processing, packaging, distribution, and use of safe food. Related fields include analytical chemistry, biotechnology, engineering, nutrition, quality control, and food safety management. Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics It is generally taken up by bioscience students. It covers the topics in the field of Nutrition and Dietetics Science and teaches its students how to prepare a proper diet for people, food management, components of a balanced diet, eating habits, and Lifestyle management, among others. Career paths after completing a BSc Biochemistry It involves the study of chemical processes and substances within living organisms. Read
                        more updates,
                        articles & News Campus The management and staff value interaction with the parents for their continued support and improving the quality of the teaching and overall campus experience. Sprawling 35 acres WiFi- enabled campus. Hostel Facilities Padmashree Group of Institutions has hostel facilities which caters to over 2000 students. Separate hostels for boys & girls with round the clock security within the campus. Each hostel has a separate dining room which provides nutritious and tasty food. Library The libraries are also equipped with online access to online journals and books and have subscription to NLIST- INFLIBNET and HELINET which provides access to students to thousands of international journals and books. Transportation There is fleet of buses which provide services to students and faculties. Bus facilities are provided to students to visit the clinical /hospitals for routine training and also for regular industrial visits. College buses regularly ply from city to campus and back regularly for the benefit for the local students. Clinic Facility There is a clinic facility available on campus where a Doctor is available for students to get the necessary medical advice. An ambulance is available in the campus for any medical emergencies that may arise. Sports Large separate court for their sports activities and games. Gymnasium well equipped for students to take care of health & fitness. The Placement and
            Training Cell is
            constituted
            that plans and executes the activities of the placements and
            training. ADMISSION ENQUIRY 2026 Close modal ADMISSION ENQUIRY 2026 Close