

Apply Now 2026 Admissions 2026-27 Admission for PG/UG/Diploma Courses For Apply Online: https://admissions.pims.org.in/ Call 96321 71973 Contact 78994 08181 WhatsApp Click Here to pay
        Online Examination Fee
        payment Home About us academic preferred courses Browse Close All Bangalore University Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Science (RGUHS) UG Courses PG Courses Diploma Courses Job Oriented/Vocational Programs All Courses UG Courses Padmashree institutions have a variety of undergraduate courses that students can choose from based on their interests and passions. PG Courses Discover an array of specialized PG courses tailored to enhance your expertise and propel your career to new heights. Diploma Courses Diploma courses are shorter programs that assist students in specializing in a specific skill and entering the workforce quickly. After 10th, 12th, graduation, or post-graduation, they have the option of being pursued. Job Oriented/Vocational Programs Padmashree is offering various skill upgrading and job-oriented courses under DDU Kaushal Kendra recognized by UGC, New Delhi B.Voc Food Processing and Nutraceuticals PIMS - Padmashree Institute of Management & Sciences offering Food Processing and Nutraceuticals Course.  Best Food Processing college in Bangalore. Get Admission Now! View B.Sc. Food Technology (Bachelor of Science) Students learn about food science, technology, and the processes involved in food production, processing, and preservation through a three-year undergraduate program known as a  Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) in Food Technology. View B.Sc. Clinical Nutrition & Dietetics B.Sc. in Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics is a three-year undergraduate degree program that teaches students how to use their knowledge of food, people, science, and medicine to prevent and treat diseases. View B.Sc. Food Science & Nutrition 3 Year UG degree Course. Get Admission now. B.Sc. Food Science & Nutrition (Bachelor of Science)  is a 3 Year Under Graduate course. The main focus is on the interface between Human Nutrition and Food Science, and the integration of these two disciplines. Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences. View B.Sc.  Biotechnology Course | Get Admission in Best UG Course in Bangalore B.Sc. Biotechnology is a 3 Year Undergraduate Course that emphasizes the intersection of biology and technology. Find the scope of Biotechnology. View B.Sc. Psychology The Bachelor of Science in Psychology (BSc Psychology) is a three-year undergraduate degree that examines the human mind, emotions, and behavior. In addition, it addresses mental illness and crisis management. View BSc Environmental Science BSc in Environmental Science is a 3 Year undergraduate program that teaches students about the environment, its processes, and how to handle environmental challenges View B.Sc. (Bachelor of Science) Microbiology B.Sc. Microbiology is a Bachelor of Science in Microbiology is a three-year undergraduate program that studies the biology of viruses, protozoa, fungi, and bacteria. View B.Sc. Genetics Course Bachelor of Science in Genetics (B.Sc. Genetics) is an undergraduate program focused on biological variations, living body mechanisms, heredity, and how genes are passed down. Such as Biochemistry, Molecular Biology, Microbiology, Zoology View B.Sc. Biochemistry B.Sc Biochemistry (Bachelor of Science)   is a 3-year undergraduate course that studies chemical and physiological processes. This branch of science applies chemistry to the study of living organisms and their atoms and molecules. View BCA - Bachelor of Computer Application View MSc Biotechnology PG Degree Program MSc Biotechnology is a post graduate degree program that focuses on the application of biology in science, medicine, and technology. This course prepare students for careers in research, healthcare and other industries. View M.Sc Biochemistry MSc in Biochemistry. It is indeed a two-year full-time postgraduate degree program that provides students with advanced knowledge and skills in the field of biochemistry. The program covers a wide range of topics, including molecular biology, enzymology etc. View M.Sc Microbiology MSc program in Microbiology. The program includes required and elective courses, and students can also opt for graduate certificates in Environmental Microbiology, Microbiome and Health, Medical Microbiology, Agricultural Microbiology View M.Sc. Applied Genetics View M.Sc. Food Technology Course | PG Degree Course An MSc in Food Technology is a postgraduate program that focuses on the scientific principles behind food production, processing, preservation, packaging and distribution. The curriculum is a blend of including food chemistry, microbiology and nutrition biotechnology. View M.Voc Food Processing and Nutraceuticals View M.Voc Food Technology and Quality Management View M.Sc. Clinical Nutrition and Dietetics View M.Sc. Food and Nutrition View B.Voc Food Processing and Nutraceuticals PIMS - Padmashree Institute of Management & Sciences offering Food Processing and Nutraceuticals Course.  Best Food Processing college in Bangalore. Get Admission Now! View M.Voc Food Processing and Nutraceuticals View M.Voc Food Technology and Quality Management View Plant Tissue Culture View Plant Genetic Transformation View Phytochemical Techniques View Chromatographic Techniques View Quality control and Quality Assurance View Post Graduate Diploma in Food processing and Nutraceuticals View Diploma in Food processing and Nutraceuticals View Advanced Diploma in Food processing and Nutraceuticals PIMS has joined the Skill India mission by offering the Advanced Diploma in Food Processing and Nutraceuticals B.VOC., M.VOC. View PG Diploma in Food Processing and Nutraceuticals (BiSEP) Under BiSEP, PIMS offers PG Diploma in Food Processing and Nutraceuticals. View B.Voc Food Technology and Quality Management B.Voc Food Technology and Quality Management View B.Com. (Bachelor of Commerce) UG Degree Course B.Com is a three-year undergraduate degree that gives students a foundation in business and commerce principles. The course covers a variety of topics, including accounting, economics, business management, and taxation. View BBA Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences includes personality development workshops as a mandatory practice for all the students which trains and grooms the students and makes them ready to enter into the corporate world. View Master of Business Administration A sub-type of the full-time MBA program that is designed for upper management over a period of one or two years. View M.Com. (Master of Commerce) Master Degree Course | Padmashree Bangalore M.Com. (Masters of Commerce) is a postgraduate master's degree focusing on commerce, accounting, business administration, management and economics related subjects. This Masters degree course ideal for candidates who wish to make a career in banking financial services. View BPT - Bachelors in Physiotherapy To ensure students are well-prepared to navigate the real world of physical healthcare, this program has been meticulously crafted to combine theoretical learning with practical experience. View B.Sc. Medical Laboratory Technology (MLT) B.Sc. MLT is a comprehensive program designed to equip students with the theoretical knowledge and practical skills required to excel in the medical laboratory field. It emphasizes diagnostic techniques, laboratory procedures, and the use of cutting-edge technology. View M.Sc. in Medical Laboratory Technology (MLT) M.Sc. in Medical Laboratory Technology PG course is designed to provide in-depth theoretical knowledge and hands-on training in various diagnostic techniques, laboratory management, and cutting-edge medical research. Padmashree Institute of Health Sciences Bangalore View Bachelor of Hospital Administration (BHA) The Bachelor of Hospital Administration (BHA) at Padmashree Institute of Hospital Administration is a highly sought-after undergraduate program designed to develop future leaders in healthcare management. Affiliated with RGUHS & approved by the Govt. of Karnataka View Master of Hospital Administration (MHA) Master of Hospital Administration (MHA) at Padmashree Institute of Hospital Administration is a prestigious postgraduate program aimed at nurturing leaders & managers for the ever-growing healthcare industry. Affiliated with RGUHS & approved by the Govt. of Karnataka View Bachelor of Public Health (BPH) Bachelor of Public Health (BPH) is Undergraduate degree program at Padmashree Institute of Public Health, affiliated with RGUHS and approved by the Govt of Karnataka. View B.Sc. Nursing  (Bachelor of Science in Nursing) BSc Nursing (Bachelor of Science in Nursing) is a 4 year undergraduate degree program that prepares students to work as registered nurses in various health sectors. The program covers including psychology,  pharmacology, physiology, nutrition, anatomy and microbiology. View Master of Public Health (MPH) Master of Public Health is a PG Degree program at Padmashree Institute of Public Health, affiliated to RGUHS & approved by the Govt. of Karnataka, is a multidisciplinary postgraduate degree designed to prepare professionals to address global health challenges. View Master of Physiotherapy (MPT) View Masters in Clinical Research MSc in Clinical Research is a postgraduate program focused on the scientific, ethical & operational aspects of conducting clinical trials & research. This program provides individuals with the knowledge and skills to manage & contribute to the drug development process View Master Of Computer Applications (MCA) MCA (Master of Computer Applications) degrees offer a variety of career paths in the rapidly evolving IT and software development sectors View NAAC - IQAC Faculty Profile Research Nutraceutical Virtual museum ACIC-PIMS Events Privacy Policy Privacy Policy for Padmashree Institute of Management and Sciences At PIMS, accessible from https://www.pims.org.in/, one of our main priorities is the privacy of our visitors. This Privacy Policy document contains types of information that is collected and recorded by PIMS and how we use it. If you have additional questions or require more information about our Privacy Policy, do not hesitate to contact us. This Privacy Policy applies only to our online activities and is valid for visitors to our website with regards to the information that they shared and/or collect in PIMS. This policy is not applicable to any information collected offline or via channels other than this website. Consent By using our website, you hereby consent to our Privacy Policy and agree to its terms. Information we collect The personal information that you are asked to provide, and the reasons why you are asked to provide it, will be made clear to you at the point we ask you to provide your personal information. If you contact us directly, we may receive additional information about you such as your name, email address, phone number, the contents of the message and/or attachments you may send us, and any other information you may choose to provide. When you register for an Account, we may ask for your contact information, including items such as name, company name, address, email address, and telephone number. How we use your information We use the information we collect in various ways, including to: Provide, operate, and maintain our website Improve, personalize, and expand our website Understand and analyze how you use our website Develop new products, services, features, and functionality Communicate with you, either directly or through one of our partners, including for customer service, to provide you with updates and other information relating to the website, and for marketing and promotional purposes Send you emails Find and prevent fraud Log Files PIMS follows a standard procedure of using log files. These files log visitors when they visit websites. All hosting companies do this and a part of hosting services' analytics. The information collected by log files include internet protocol (IP) addresses, browser type, Internet Service Provider (ISP), date and time stamp, referring/exit pages, and possibly the number of clicks. These are not linked to any information that is personally identifiable. The purpose of the information is for analyzing trends, administering the site, tracking users' movement on the website, and gathering demographic information. Google DoubleClick DART Cookie Google is one of a third-party vendor on our site. It also uses cookies, known as DART cookies, to serve ads to our site visitors based upon their visit to www.website.com and other sites on the internet. However, visitors may choose to decline the use of DART cookies by visiting the Google ad and content network Privacy Policy at the following URL – https://policies.google.com/technologies/ads Our Advertising Partners Some of advertisers on our site may use cookies and web beacons. Our advertising partners are listed below. Each of our advertising partners has their own Privacy Policy for their policies on user data. For easier access, we hyperlinked to their Privacy Policies below. Google https://policies.google.com/technologies/ads Advertising Partners Privacy Policies You may consult this list to find the Privacy Policy for each of the advertising partners of PIMS. Third-party ad servers or ad networks uses technologies like cookies, JavaScript, or Web Beacons that are used in their respective advertisements and links that appear on PIMS, which are sent directly to users' browser. They automatically receive your IP address when this occurs. These technologies are used to measure the effectiveness of their advertising campaigns and/or to personalize the advertising content that you see on websites that you visit. Note that PIMS has no access to or control over these cookies that are used by third-party advertisers. Third Party Privacy Policies PIMS's Privacy Policy does not apply to other advertisers or websites. Thus, we are advising you to consult the respective Privacy Policies of these third-party ad servers for more detailed information. It may include their practices and instructions about how to opt-out of certain options. You can choose to disable cookies through your individual browser options. To know more detailed information about cookie management with specific web browsers, it can be found at the browsers' respective websites. CCPA Privacy Rights (Do Not Sell My Personal Information) Under the CCPA, among other rights, California consumers have the right to: Request that a business that collects a consumer's personal data disclose the categories and specific pieces of personal data that a business has collected about consumers. Request that a business delete any personal data about the consumer that a business has collected. Request that a business that sells a consumer's personal data, not sell the consumer's personal data. If you make a request, we have one month to respond to you. If you would like to exercise any of these rights, please contact us. GDPR Data Protection Rights We would like to make sure you are fully aware of all of your data protection rights. Every user is entitled to the following: The right to access – You have the right to request copies of your personal data. We may charge you a small fee for this service. The right to rectification – You have the right to request that we correct any information you believe is inaccurate. You also have the right to request that we complete the information you believe is incomplete. The right to erasure – You have the right to request that we erase your personal data, under certain conditions. The right to restrict processing – You have the right to request that we restrict the processing of your personal data, under certain conditions. The right to object to processing – You have the right to object to our processing of your personal data, under certain conditions. The right to data portability – You have the right to request that we transfer the data that we have collected to another organization, or directly to you, under certain conditions. If you make a request, we have one month to respond to you. If you would like to exercise any of these rights, please contact us. Children's Information Another part of our priority is adding protection for children while using the internet. We encourage parents and guardians to observe, participate in, and/or monitor and guide their online activity. PIMS does not knowingly collect any Personal Identifiable Information from children under the age of 13. If you think that your child provided this kind of information on our website, we strongly encourage you to contact us immediately and we will do our best efforts to promptly remove such information from our records. Changes to This Privacy Policy We may update our Privacy Policy from time to time. Thus, we advise you to review this page periodically for any changes. We will notify you of any changes by posting the new Privacy Policy on this page. These changes are effective immediately, after they are posted on this page. Contact Us If you have any questions or suggestions about our Privacy Policy, do not hesitate to contact us. ADMISSION ENQUIRY 2026 Close modal ADMISSION ENQUIRY 2026 Close